The recent City of Johannesburg budget speech demonstrated the multiparty government’s commitment to take what is broken in the city and repair it. The government has accepted the shared responsibility of transforming Johannesburg into a place of golden opportunity, in which all residents can thrive, wherever they are in life. Delivering the 2022/2023 budget speech on May 25, MMC for finance Julie Suddaby said the city's “golden start” has taken root and that the next phase, the “golden repair”, is now under way. The following increases apply from July 1 2022: The budget is aligned to the seven mayoral priorities outlined by executive mayor of  Johannesburg Mpho Phalatse when she delivered her maiden state of the city address in April: 1. A city that gets the basics right Some rebuilding will be necessary, but substantial amounts are being allocated to repair existing infrastructure and facilities. The following capital expenditure allocations were made: 2. A safe and secure city A R1.1m operational budget has been allocated to form a dedicated prosecution unit and revitalise municipal courts. 3. A caring city To improve the quality of care in Johannesburg’s clinics, R21.5m has been allocated to fully implement the eHealth system over the medium term. The city has also allocated R116m in operational budget over the next three years to provide impetus to the goal of a drug-free society. 4. A business-friendly city 5. An inclusive city A total of R35.1m was budgeted for free Wi-Fi infrastructure in libraries to connect residents to income-generating opportunities and learning. In addition, R600m capital expenditure was budgeted for the electrification of various informal settlements across the city, over the medium term. 6. A well-run city Operational expenditure of R20m was allocated to acquire an automated supply chain management system and state employees verification tool. 7. A smart city A sum of R20m has been allocated over the medium term for new security equipment for fire detection and suppression at major substations. This will assist greatly to ensure reliable power supply. This article was paid for by the City of Johannesburg.