Allegations that President Cyril Ramaphosa covered up the 2020 theft of $4m  hidden in furniture came to light just as his second term started to seem certain,  Carien du Plessis writes in this week’s edition of Vrye Weekblad. Three provincial congresses swung in his favour and a few days after the allegations emerged in an affidavit by former spy boss Arthur Fraser, Limpopo also declared its support for Ramaphosa. Although a few other names are being bandied about, Ramaphosa is the only presidential candidate with majority support in the ANC. There are five possible scenarios: # 1 Nothing happens to him Ramaphosa was slow to react, but that is his style. He’s provided only enough information to not be accused of not responding, but many questions linger. Ramaphosa said the law should run its course, knowing full well it will take time to lay charges that will lead to a successful prosecution, and that there is scant evidence. His supporters realise there is no one to take his place. In this scenario, he is re-elected as ANC president, but his position in the party is weakened by Fraser’s allegations and his opponents who believe he should have stepped aside. In the 2024 general elections, the ANC will not achieve a majority and Ramaphosa will play an important role in South Africa’s political transition to a coalition government. This is the most likely scenario. #2 Ramaphosa is unavailable for a second term The president doesn’t like sudden moves — and he knows the markets don’t like them — but he realises he can’t continue as president. He doesn’t want his opponents in the  RET faction to come to power and uses his influence to enforce a candidate of his choice, someone who will continue his  programme of renewal within the party and government. Names on Ramaphosa’s candidate list could include human settlements minister Mmamoloko Kubayi, minister of international relations Naledi Pandor and justice minister Ronald Lamola. #3 Motion of no confidence The EFF and ATM have indicated they want Ramaphosa to resign and ANC heavyweights like Tony Yengeni have added their support. There is a significant group of ANC MPs who do not back Ramaphosa. The constitution determines  the president can be removed with a two-thirds majority vote, which would require 268 of the 400 MPs to vote  in favour of such a motion. The ANC  has 230 MPs and a vote against Ramaphosa is likely to succeed only if it is supported by a large portion of ANC MPs  and DA members. #4 Ramaphosa resigns immediately The president decides he’s had enough and resigns. The ANC  national executive committee can also ask him to resign. This scenario is not impossible, but unlikely six months before a national conference. #5 He runs for a second term and loses One of the main ingredients of an ANC election campaign is money, and there is a possibility  the stolen money  from Ramaphosa’s farm could have been intended for the December conference. With the focus on the money he keeps on the farm, it might be harder for him to accumulate funds in this way. If he can’t get enough money together, there is a possibility he can lose the presidency to someone who has more devious plans. If it is a RET victory, it will signal the end of Ramaphosa’s renewal project  and the ANC’s majority in 2024. THE NUMBERS MAN | Pali Lehohla talk to Anneliese Burgess about his Economic Modelling Agency, why SA’s education system is broken, and an ox called Census. THE WEEK IN POLITICS | If we can’t fix SA we should at least give it a new corporate identity to hide the mess, writes Max du Preez. FREE TO READ — KLOOF STREET BLUES | Herman Lategan has come a long way with Kloof Street, where he was conceived. He walks this famous Cape Town road again and realises everything eventually comes to an end. IT’S JUST A MACHINE THAT STEALS YOUR SOUL | Perhaps don’t read this if you are on the verge of an existential crisis, but we were wondering about this thing with Google and the robot that may or may not have feelings. A DEEP CONVERSATION ABOUT THE ‘ROOI GEVAAR’ | Piet Croucamp chats to Leopold Scholtz about his new book about the ANC and communism.