Former Big Brother Mzansi contestant Tulani Madala, popularly known as Tulz, is looking to make a difference with his newly acquired fame after launching a jersey drive. The reality TV star and radio personality announced to his followers on Monday that he was starting an initiative under his NGO, Talent Factory, with the help his fan base dubbed  the "Tulz Nation", which sees them donate jerseys and blankets in different areas in Mzansi. While  in the competition, Tulz often wore a jersey  knitted by his grandmother, which had the audience convinced  it  kept him on the show for 71 days without being nominated for eviction and becoming the top 5. After leaving the show, Tulz  enlivened the joke by resuming his endeavour to empower young people from his hometown in the Eastern Cape and around the country with his NGO. “Beyond the show, it's overwhelming how so many people want to show me love. I  want to turn it into something bigger than I am. It's bigger than  the fame or being on Big Brother. This is my response. I'm taking whatever was said about the jersey, whether positive or negative, and I'm turning it into something bigger than me, “We are all fully aware how many people don't have clothes or blankets, basic things  people need. Winter is freezing. We're trying to collect as many clothes as possible over two to three weeks that would literally change a person's life,” he told TshisaLIVE. Once the jersey drive is completed, Tulz said he's looking to launch  his podcast as his next project to give fans what they have been waiting to hear — his voice behind the mic. “Many people have been wanting to hear me speak on the microphone. I've been waiting to do it, only because I want to do it correctly,” The podcast, titled The Game, is set to be broadcast on YouTube and will be hosted by himself, YFM's Kea Zawadi, 5FM's Zanele Potelwa and former Big Brother housemate Adindu “Zino” Asuzu . “It will be us  sharing our every day experiences as people working in the industry. The good, the bad, the interesting and everything in between.”