Finland's government plans to amend border legislation to allow the building of barriers on its eastern frontier with Russia, it said on Thursday, in a move to strengthen preparedness against hybrid threats amid Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Finland, which is currently applying for membership in the Western military alliance NATO, has a history of wars with Russia, although currently the forest-covered border zone between the two countries is marked merely with signs and plastic lines for most of its 1,300-km (810-mile) length. The Finnish government has rushed to strengthen border security as it fears Russia could attempt to put pressure on Finland by sending asylum seekers to its borders - as the European Union accused Belarus of doing at the end of last year when hundreds of migrants from the Middle East, Afghanistan and Africa got stuck on the Polish border. The government's amendments to the law include a proposal to enable concentrating the reception of asylum applications only at specific points of entry. Under existing EU rules, migrants have the right to ask for asylum at any given entry point to an EU member country. The amendments would also allow the building of barriers such as fences, as well as new roads to facilitate border patrolling on the Finnish side. "Later on, the government will decide on border barriers to the critical zones on the eastern border, on the basis of the Finnish Border Guard's assessment," minister of internal affairs Krista Mikkonen said in a statement. Reuters The Kremlin said on Thursday that no agreement had been reached to sell grain from Ukraine to Turkey - which Ukraine says Russia has stolen from it - but that work on a deal was continuing. Moscow denies stealing the grain but the United States says there are credible reports that Russia is "pilfering" it.Yevgeny Balitsky, a Russian-installed official in charge of Russian-occupied areas of Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia region, said this week that grain had been transported from there to Crimea, en route to the Middle East. Asked if any deal had been reached to sell this grain to Turkey or a Middle Eastern country, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said: "So far no agreements have been reached, work is continuing." He said he could not confirm Balitsky's statement that the grain had been sent by rail to Crimea, which Russia seized from Ukraine in 2014.Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Wednesday rounded on a Ukrainian reporter who asked him about Russian "theft" at a news conference in Turkey, saying: "You (Ukrainians) are always so preoccupied with what you can steal and from where, and you think that everyone acts that way." Ukraine is a major grain exporter to Africa and the Middle East and disruption to these shipments as a result of Russia's invasion is pushing prices higher, fuelling an international food crisis. Turkey has been pushing for an agreement between Russia and Ukraine on a plan to resume grain exports from Ukrainian ports. Lavrov said after his talks there that Russia had done its part and it was up to Ukraine to de-mine its ports so ships could exit to the Black Sea. Ukraine used to export most of its goods by sea but since Russia's Feb. 24 invasion has been forced to transport grain by train via its western border or via small Danube river ports. Russia, which calls its actions in Ukraine a "special military operation", said on Tuesday that two major Ukrainian ports on the Sea of Azov seized by Russian forces were ready to resume grain shipments. Reuters Jailed Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny scolded Google and Meta Platforms Inc on Thursday for shutting down advertising, a step he said had undermined the opposition and thus was a gift to President Vladimir Putin. Navalny, by far Russia's most prominent opposition leader, casts Putin's Russia as a dystopian state run by thieves and criminals where wrong is cast as right and judges are in fact representatives of a doomed lawless country. In a written address to the Copenhagen Democracy Summit, Navalny, who is currently in a Russian jail, said technology was being used by the state to arrest dissidents but that it also gave an opportunity to get to the truth. "The Internet gives us the ability to circumvent censorship," Navalny said in the address, a copy of which was posted on his official blog. "Yet, at the same time, Google and Meta, by shutting down their advertising in Russia, have deprived the opposition of the opportunity to conduct anti-war campaigns, giving a grandiose gift to Putin. "Neither Google nor Meta immediately responded to a request for comment on Navalny's remarks. Both companies paused advertising targetting users in Russia in March, just days after Russia invaded Ukraine. Navalny earned admiration from the disparate Russian opposition for voluntarily returning to Russia in 2021 from Germany, where he had undergone treatment for what Western laboratory tests showed was an attempt to poison him with a nerve agent in Siberia. The Kremlin has repeatedly dismissed Navalny's claims about Putin, who it says has won numerous elections in Russia since 2000 and remains by far the country's most popular politician. It has dismissed Navalny's assertion that Russia poisoned him. Navalny, a former lawyer who rose to prominence more than a decade ago by lampooning Putin's elite and voicing allegations of corruption on a vast scale, said the titans of Silicon Valley had a lot of questions to answer. They would have to decide, he said, whether or not they were really "neutral platforms" and whether or not users in democracies should operate under the same rules as those in repressive societies. "How should the internet treat government directives, given that Norway and Uganda seem to have slightly different ideas about the role of the internet and democracy?" he asked. "We love technology. We love social networks. We want to live in a free informational society. So let's figure out how to keep the bad guys from using the information society to drive their nations and all of us into the dark ages." Reuters Tourists once flocked to the Ukrainian resort of Odesa to lie on its Black Sea beaches, but the white sands are now covered in mines because of the war with Russia and police officers patrol the boardwalks. Ukraine's military planted mines along the coast in case of a Russian amphibious assault after Moscow's February 24 invasion, cordoning off beach entrances with red and white tape to ensure civilians don't get hurt. Already reeling from the war, the local economy of the port city of Odesa in southwestern Ukraine will take a huge hit to its tourism industry this year. Long-time residents cannot imagine life in Odesa without the sand and sea. "We can't live without the sea. If not for the sea, there would probably be no Odesa," said 82-year-old resident Viktor Holchenko. In early May, Russian forces pounded the port with missiles, leaving buildings in Odesa in ruin. Signs posted by Ukraine's military warn residents to stay away from the beaches where mines have been buried. From a seaside restaurant, the view is now of a "Danger! mines" sign. A Reuters witness saw a family with a small child walk down a cordoned off beach, splashing around in the sea after nightfall, in defiance of the rules. Other residents laid out beach towels along boardwalks instead of on beaches to tan in their bathing suits. "They (the military) said not to go there (to the seaside)," said 18-year-old resident Kyrylo Zinchenko. "Why would you go there? This is the summer we will have." Once a driver of the local economy, tourism in Odesa has dried up. "We realize that the tourism business and recreational component is an important element ... but we also realize that if we don't hold the defence of our region, there will be no budget to fill," said Nataliia Humeniuk, a spokeswoman of the southern military command. The local economy will take a broad hit, said tourism office owner Oleksandr Babich. "It is hotels, restaurants, souvenirs, all kinds of beach services. It is things related to the cultural sector ... I don't know how the city economy will do without them." Reuters Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said on Thursday that Russia's invasion of his country posed a huge threat of pollution to water basins, including the Sea of Azov. In an address to a ministerial meeting of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), he also underlined the need for green energy to replace Russian natural gas supplies following Russia's invasion on February 24. Reuters The battle for the Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk is brutal and will determine the fate of the Donbas region, said the country's president, as Russian troops lay waste to the city in an assault aimed at controlling eastern Ukraine. After failing to take control of the capital Kyiv, the Kremlin says it is now seeking to completely “liberate” Ukraine's breakaway Donbas where Russian-backed separatists broke away from Ukrainian government control in 2014. Around a third of the Donbas was held by the separatists before the Feb. 24 invasion. Two Britons and a Moroccan who were captured while fighting for Ukraine could face the death penalty after pleading guilty in a court of one of Russia's proxies in eastern Ukraine, Russia's RIA news agency reported. Video published by RIA showed Britons Aiden Aslin and Shaun Pinner and Moroccan Brahim Saadoun in a courtroom cage with white bars. RIA said Pinner and Saadoun had pleaded guilty to actions aimed at the violent seizure of power. The video appeared to show Aslin pleading guilty to a lesser charge involving weapons and explosives. He was seen standing in the cage and leafing through a sheaf of legal documents as the charge was translated to him. The US and China are expected to use Asia's top security meeting this week to trade blows over everything from Taiwan's sovereignty to the war in Ukraine, although both sides have indicated a willingness to discuss managing differences. The Shangri-La Dialogue, which attracts top-level military officials, diplomats and weapons makers from around the globe, will take place June 10-12 in Singapore, the first time the event has been held since 2019 after it was postponed twice because of Covid-19. On the sidelines of the summit, US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin and Chinese Minister of National Defence General Wei Fenghe are expected to hold their first face-to-face meeting since President Joe Biden took office more than two years ago. “We expect, from our perspective, the substance of that meeting to be focused on managing competition in regional and global issues,” a senior US official said. Western-supplied artillery systems are already making a difference on the ground for Ukraine and it is "just a question of time" before its forces win back significant ground in the south, the governor of the Mykolaiv region said on Wednesday. Governor Vitaliy Kim, whose region is partially occupied by Russia but remains just one of two that retains significant access to the Black Sea, told Reuters that Ukrainian forces had "some success" in recent weeks in a counterattack in the neighbouring Kherson region. Asked when Western weapons would start to make a difference on the ground against Russian forces that invaded the country on Feb. 24, he said: "It is already happening ... and we will have (more) success." "We are talking about artillery," he said. "It is already working in our region." He declined to say what specific Western artillery systems were working there. While both Russia and Ukraine have focused much of their resources in recent weeks on the fight for control of the eastern industrial Donbas region, the fate of Ukraine's remaining Black Sea coastline in Odesa and Mykolaiv is crucial to ensure the country's economic future. To make significant breakthroughs in the south of the country, like taking back the pocket of Kherson Region controlled by Russia above the Dnipro River, Ukraine will likely need more manpower - either by freeing up forces in the east or through additional mobilisation, Kim said. And Kyiv realises there is still a risk that Russia will make a fresh assault on major cities Mykolaiv and Zaporizhzhia. "In the coming months, I think they have some opportunities to attack on Zaporizhzhia and Mykolaiv. But for now we don’t see any regrouping, any big armies to attack," Kim said.While things are moving very slowly at present, "the situation could move very fast," he said. Reuters