Health minister Dr Joe Phaahla on Monday called for calm and vigilance after government detected four cases of measles in Gauteng. These cases were found during routine surveillance activities aimed at detecting, investigating and responding to  suspected cases of this vaccine-preventable disease. The department of health said  in the last two weeks of May four suspected cases of measles  were detected in Gauteng and  confirmed through laboratory testing  by the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD). Three of these cases  were individuals  living in Tshwane, which meant  the city   was experiencing an outbreak. The fourth case  was an individual  living on the West Rand. All four  were  in  isolation and  recovering. The health authorities in the affected districts and communities  were working together to identify and conduct vaccination of contacts. Phaahla urged parents and caregivers to ensure  their children  were up-to-date with their vaccinations in line with the vaccination schedule against measles and other childhood diseases. “Measles is a highly contagious disease caused by a virus which mainly spreads through infectious airborne respiratory droplets from infected people when coughing or sneezing. “However, the measles vaccine has been in use for almost 60 years and is the best protection against this life-threatening childhood disease. It is safe, effective and available free of charge at public health facilities,” Phaahla said. Measles symptoms include fever, red eyes, runny nose and a cough which typically appear before the onset of the disease’s characteristic maculopapular rash. Children, especially those under one year, may develop complicated measles which may include pneumonia, eye complications and, rarely, encephalitis (inflammation of the brain). The department said unvaccinated young children  were at highest risk of measles and its complications. Officials  were working closely with the Gauteng health department, the City of Tshwane, the NICD and other stakeholders, including the World Health Organisation and Unicef to investigate and respond to the outbreak. The response includes increased surveillance and vigilance throughout the province. According to the  SA expanded programme on immunisation, children are given measles vaccines at six months and 12 months of age. These vaccines are available free of charge at public health facilities. Measles is a notifiable medical condition in terms of the National Health Act and clinicians have been alerted on the symptoms to look for. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.