Dreaming of that “money in” feeling during the month? Now Capitec, SA’s best and biggest digital bank with  more than 10-million digital clients, rewards you with real cash back on your monthly spend simply for banking with it. It turns the 10th of every month, Live Better Day, into a second payday. Over the past three months, Capitec has given clients  more than R72m in cash back just for doing everyday banking and helped them save R500m with automatic savings tools. By the end of 2022, the bank aims to help clients save R1bn. “Our research shows us that South Africans are after real value when it comes to rewards programmes,” says Francois Viviers, group executive of marketing and communications at Capitec. “People are tired of complicated tiers, subscription fees and points  they don’t understand. We made rewards really simple and transparent with the Live Better rewards programme. It gives clients cash back, while motivating a positive savings culture with our Live Better savings account.” “When you bank smart, you can get paid to bank with us, rather than pay for banking,” says Viviers. “More than 7-million clients activated Live Better and  more than 2.5-million of these clients are earning more cash back than what they pay in bank fees.” All you need to do is join Live Better rewards programme for free on the Capitec app, then do the following every month: Once you’ve reached these goals every month, you can earn cash back on  every rand you spend with your card. This money, together with the cash back you'll earn every time you spend with one of Capitec's rewards partners, which include Dis-Chem, Baby City, Shell and more, is all paid into your Live Better savings account on Live Better Day, the 10th of every month. The money earns higher interest in your Live Better savings account than in your savings account and you can transfer it to your main account whenever you want. “It’s as easy as that — keep banking with us and you get real cash back that you can use however and whenever you want.  You not only empower yourself, but you also have more time and money to spend on the things you love most. We just want to reward you for banking better so you can live better,” says Viviers. This article was paid for by Capitec.