A former police constable accused of fatally shooting three people, including a policeman,  at New Somerset Hospital  appeared virtually in the Cape Town magistrate's court on Thursday. Jean-Paul Carl Malgas, 39, from  Vredenburg on the West Coast, faces three counts of murder, illegal possession of a firearm, ammunition and robbery. During a previous appearance in May, he told the court he suffered from depression and was suicidal. However, on Thursday he told the court his health was improving under treatment. Malgas allegedly disarmed and shot 32-year-old Const Donay Phillips in the head inside the hospital in May. He then allegedly shot two patients who died on the scene. Advocate Adenaan Gelderbloem  told the court on Thursday that DNA reports, a prima residue report, two postmortem reports (the state has received one so far), witness statements, ballistic reports and  an identity parade were still outstanding. “The accused told the court  his health was getting better as he was  getting treatment. His lawyer requested that he be physically present in court at the next appearance as he needed to consult  his client,” said National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila. “Previously, Malgas told the court  he was not going to apply for bail. He has not indicated that he is changing that position, but if he does, the state will oppose his bail application.” Sister Diane Seale, a nurse at the hospital, was applauded for  calming the situation  after the shooting  by hugging and chatting to Malgas until he agreed to be sedated. “I walked towards him and hugged him,” she told TimesLIVE. “Eventually he agreed for me to sedate him. Through it all I sat with him, stroking his forehead until he was  sedated. At this point I could call the [police] tactical team to subdue him. “When I walked out everyone was there. My team was there and safe. This gave me the encouragement I needed to push on.” Parliament’s portfolio committee on health called for “vigorous engagements and discussion” to address the issue of police officers entering hospitals with  firearms. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.