The EFF says it is considering a national shutdown in response to the latest fuel price increases. From Wednesday motorists are forking out R2.43 more  per litre for 93 octane petrol and R2.33 per litre for 95 octane. Diesel and illuminating paraffin  have increased by R1.10/l and R1.56/l, respectively. It  costs R24.17/l for 95 unleaded and R23.94 for 93 unleaded. The wholesale price of diesel  reached record highs, with high-sulphur 0.05% diesel priced inland at R23.09/l and low-sulphur 0.005% at R23.23/l. In a joint statement, the departments of finance and mineral resources and energy said they would extend the R1.50 fuel levy holiday, which was due to expire on Tuesday, for another two months. Why  a national shutdown? The  EFF said a national shutdown would force National Treasury and mineral resources and energy minister Gwede Mantashe to introduce immediate measures to drop  fuel prices. The  party said government does not have a practical and believable plan to address the rising cost of living. “Government has demonstrated  it is not interested in resolving this matter. Instead it is tone-deaf to the pleas of workers, the taxi industry and small businesses,” said the EFF. “We will, in consultation with other key stakeholders, consider a national shutdown until the price of petrol is reduced. The National Treasury, together with the minister of energy, ought to introduce immediate measures to lower fuel and petrol prices.” Other protests The DA said it would protest in seven provinces  against  fuel price increases and to reject the government’s abuse of the prices. DA MP and shadow minister of mineral resources and energy Kevin Mileham said the party would keep up the fight to have prices slashed. “This government is mismanaging our finances,” he said. “The ANC government is using the centrally controlled fuel price to thieve and loot South Africans. The exorbitant new fuel price is nothing short of criminal.” Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.