Spotlight is our entertainment bite-sized snapshot featuring new entertainment releases in SA, exclusive film trailers and much more. New episodes are out every Thursday on Sunday Times Lifestyle, Sowetan Entertainment and on YouTube, plus you can follow Spotlight on Facebook. This week Spotlight goes behind the scenes at one of SA’s most beloved series and also gets a closer look at one of Hollywood’s newest stars. Presenter Collette Prince pays a visit to the set of one of the country’s most addictive TV soapies, Scandal, and tries to unravel how this melting pot of storytelling has produced magic since 2005, keeping SA audiences glued to their e.tv screens. Produced by Ochre Moving Pictures, this entertaining telenovela-style depiction of SA life is complete with villains and heroes, and full of twists and turns. Spotlight looks at another SA-produced, award-winning drama, The Good Life.  This charming story, set in Cape Town and Greece, follows the story of Olive, who flees to Greece to try to mend a broken heart. Written, produced and directed by Bonnie Rodini, the film stars Erica Wessels, Leon Clingman and Robyn Scott. Look out for the interviews with the cast of this movie, now streaming on Netflix. Showmax’s new local survival horror, Pulse, will be available from June 23. This six-episode TV series has been labelled one of the 25 buzziest at television markets, and stars Thapelo Mokoena. It centres on a group of video game designers trapped in a world where survival is not a game. A highly anticipated film on the cinema release landscape is Elvis. Baz Luhrmann (Moulin Rouge, Great Gatsby, Romeo and Juliet) cast Austin Butler (Once Upon a Time in Hollywood) in the title role, with early reactions indicating the launch of a new breakout star. Don’t miss the insert to see if Austin Butler is indeed Hollywood’s new “It” man as the countdown to the film’s release on June 24 draws nearer. For full interviews, breaking news, trailers, clips and competition details, visit our Spotlight Facebook page. See you at the movies! Presenter Collette Prince is styled and dressed by We Are Egg. Shop online. We Are Egg is a beautifully curated, experiential department store of local and international fashion, beauty, home, jewellery and food. More details on Instagram about Collette's look of the week here. This week Spotlight is giving away some dazzling Elvis movie merchandise, as well as pet grooming vouchers from Clean Paws mobile pet grooming: To enter, visit the Spotlight South Africa Facebook page. Terms and conditions apply. Winners will be drawn randomly and notified by SMS after the competition has closed.  Entrants’ personal details will not be retained for marketing purposes. Winners have to provide proof of age (ID/driver’s licence) and cover their own travel and accommodation expenses. By entering participants agree to have their names published on TimesLIVE, SowetanLIVE and Spotlight South Africa on Facebook. Employees of Arena Holdings and their family members are not eligible to enter.