How can it be that 22 years after 13 children were killed in a stampede in Chatsworth the same tragedy is happening again? That was the question posed by the National Youth Development Agency (NYDA) on Tuesday when it said the deaths of 21 children at an Eastern Cape tavern was déjà vu of what happened at  Throb nightclub in  KwaZulu-Natal when 13 children were killed. “Twenty years ago, young people died in Chatsworth in a senseless nightclub tragedy. The pain of that has remained with that community and SA for two decades. “At the time, South Africans collectively asked themselves  what young people under the age of 18 were doing in a nightclub,” the NYDA said. The Chatsworth  pupils had been attending a matinee session hosted at the club on March 24 2000 when a stampede broke out after the detonation of a teargas canister on the dance floor. There were 600 children  aged 11 to 14 celebrating the end of term at the club.  More than 100 were injured in the incident. “How can it be that we are facing the same tragedy again? Is this illustrative of our lack of progress as a country,” the agency asked. The NYDA called on law enforcement officials to conduct a transparent and speedy investigation and to hold to account those  responsible for  the tragedy. In the Eastern Cape incident at the weekend, hundreds of youth  turned up at the Enyobeni tavern to celebrate the end of the school term in  a “pens down” event.  Some were there to celebrate two birthday parties after the event was marketed on the tavern’s Facebook pages. It was not immediately clear what  led to the deaths of the 21  at Enyobeni as many  were found slouched across tables and chairs while others seemed to have collapsed and died on dance floors. Survivors have said a substance was released into the air, leading to many  experiencing difficulty  breathing. The incident has led to many questions about underage drinking and children being allowed  into establishments that sell alcohol. The NYDA said it would meet its counterparts at the departments of women, youth and persons with disabilities, social development and communications to understand where  legislation banning alcohol advertising is at and to call for fast tracking of the legislation. “We will engage our counterparts in the police service to understand why clubs and  taverns are not being policed effectively. “This is not an isolated incident where taverns are allowing  underage drinking. The might of the law needs to deal with  taverns and clubs  carrying out illegal activity,” the agency said. The agency  welcomed the decision by the Eastern Cape Liquor Board to suspend the  tavern’s licence. It also called on parents and communities to work together with law enforcement  to report these types of activities. “Ultimately, we need to accept that the longer we lock young people and households out of meaningful economic activity, the more they will suffer mental health consequences and often turn to alcohol and substance abuse.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.