Cape law enforcement officers retrieved a  paramedic vehicle stolen from an accident scene on Saturday night. The stolen Community Medics response vehicle was parked with all its lights on to warn motorists of a vehicle which had rolled, landed on its roof and was obstructing traffic. A man, who was found on the scene and had been attended to by paramedics, was allegedly behind the theft of the response vehicle. Community Medics said paramedics assessed the man on the scene, and he was then questioned by police. "Immediately after the questioning he jumped into the response vehicle and fled the scene whilst the medic was still at the rear of the vehicle flagging down oncoming traffic. "Law enforcement agencies and armed response on scene immediately gave chase. After a high-speed chase, the vehicle was recovered with minor damage and all the equipment intact," said Community Medics. Earlier, TimesLIVE reported how newly-organised Law Enforcement Advancement Plan’s (Leap) reaction unit had assisted in apprehending the alleged thief. The unit said it was busy with crime prevention duties in Prince George Drive in Steenberg when they got the radio control emergency broadcast at about 10.30pm that the vehicle had been stolen in Table View. According to a statement on Sunday, Leap officers identified a vehicle matching its description and driving at high speed. The officers gave chase and caught up with the vehicle, blocking it off in Muizenberg. “The occupant was placed under arrest for possession of stolen property, driving while under the influence, reckless and negligent driving and resisting arrest. The suspect was then transported and handed over to Milnerton SAPS for further investigation and prosecution.” Meanwhile, Community Medics said: "We are truly grateful our vehicle is back safe and that no one was injured during the high-speed chase. As Community Medics is a NPO and only funded by donations, this would have been a huge setback to our organisation if the vehicle and equipment was not recovered. "The vehicle is currently impounded by the SAPS and we are hoping for its quick release so that the response vehicle may continue providing a first world medical response to those in need." Community Medics has opened a case of theft of a motor vehicle and the investigation is ongoing. The Leap unit was launched in May and deployed to Steenberg and Ottery after an increase in gang-related violence and shootings in Lavender Hill and Grassy Park. At the launch, premier of the Western Cape Alan Winde explained: “The reaction unit is acting as a force multiplier, assisting the SAPS command centre in responding to flare-ups and shootings in areas that are not designated Leap hotspots and which do not have a fixed Leap deployment. Instead, they are deployed temporarily to restore and stabilise the communities they are placed in.” According to Sunday's statement, to bring about a change in national policing, a holistic approach is needed through a complete revamp of the national police service. The approach includes: “This is why it is imperative that national government devolves the structure over SAPS to instead be a provincial government competency, to allow us to bring our SAPS up to the standards needed. Until then, the city will continue providing our local SAPS with as much support as possible,” it said. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.