The head of  Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital  in Soweto on Monday  said mostly matters beyond her staff's control  had led to the postponement  or cancellation  of  more than 870  operations this year. “We have 43 theatres and our patient load is quite heavy. We  strive to prioritise emergency surgical procedures,” said CEO Dr Nkele Lesia. “We don’t cancel any emergency cases and the reasons for cancellation are many — some of them are patient-related, which we are not in control of. For example, if the person is not fit for a surgery.” While the 870 cancelled or postponed  operations seemed high, Lesia  said the hospital had conducted 24,000 procedures within the same time frame. Some  operations  were deferred  because of time — doctors could only perform a limited number of  operations a  day. “However, what is avoidable is the issue of this infrastructure challenge. For example, there was no clean linen at the hospital,” said Lesia. “The reason  was that the boilers were not functioning and at the same time the laundry equipment was  not functioning.” Infrastructure  needed to be maintained  to support theatre services. Lesia was  speaking during a visit to the hospital by the SA Human Rights Commission (SAHRC). The commission  conducted an oversight visit of the hospital  after reports that the cancelled procedures were due to overbooking, equipment problems, maintenance issues and the  the shortage of linen. The SAHRC's head in Gauteng, Buang Jones,  said the commission planned to meet  the heads of the departments of health, treasury and infrastructure development on July 13 to  discuss challenges in the provincial healthcare sector. “The purpose of our visit today [Monday] was to examine  factors such as infrastructure, the quality of healthcare services, equipment and human resources.” Jones said they had received verbal responses from the hospital delegation  they  met. “We will await formal reports within a week. The commission intends to convene a meeting with the heads of departments to see how we can attend to these challenges and resolve them in a manner that upholds, respects and promotes the right of access to healthcare services.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.