Iran, which holds the world's second largest gas reserves, has applied to join the BRICS group of Brazil, Russia, India, China and SA that Beijing and Moscow cast as a powerful emerging market alternative to the West. The term BRIC was coined by Goldman Sachs economist Jim O’Neill in 2001 to describe the startling rise of Brazil, Russia, India, China. The BRIC powers had their first summit in 2009 in Russia. SA joined in 2010. Iran's membership in the BRICS group “would result in added values for both sides”, Iran's Foreign Ministry spokesperson said. Russia said Argentina had also applied to join. Russia cast the applications as evidence that the West, led by the US, was failing to isolate Moscow after the invasion of Ukraine. Russia on Tuesday expanded its US 'stop-list', including in it the wife and daughter of President Joe Biden as well as other prominent figures. The step was taken "as a response to the ever-expanding U.S. sanctions against Russian political and public figures," Russia's foreign ministry said in a statement. Reuters The British army's Chief of the General Staff Patrick Sanders said on Tuesday that the army needed to be able to mobilise faster to deter the threat from Russia. Reuters Russia defaulted on its international bonds for the first time in more than a century, the White House said, as sweeping sanctions have effectively cut the country off from the global financial system, rendering its assets untouchable. The Kremlin, which has the money to make payments thanks to oil and gas revenues, swiftly rejected the claims, and has accused the West of driving it into an artificial default. Earlier, some bondholders said they had not received overdue interest on Monday following the expiry of a key payment deadline on Sunday. Russia has struggled to keep up payments on $40 billion of outstanding bonds since its invasion of Ukraine on February 24. G7 leaders are working on finding a way of letting Ukraine export its grain, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Tuesday. "We're working on it, we're all working on it," he said at the start of a five-way meeting with France's Emmanuel Macron, Italy's Mario Draghi, Germany's Olaf Scholz and the US's Joe Biden, when asked if they were going to get the grain out of Ukraine. Ukraine's bulk grain exports are being hindered by a Russian blockade of its Black Sea ports, forcing exporters to use less efficient land routes. Reuters Firefighters and soldiers searched on Tuesday for survivors in the rubble of a shopping mall in central Ukraine after a Russian missile strike killed at least 16 people in an attack condemned by the UN and the West. Family members of the missing lined up at a hotel across the street where rescue workers had set up a base after Monday’s strike on the busy mall in Kremenchuk, southeast of Kyiv. More than 1,000 people were inside when two Russian missiles slammed into the mall, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said. At least 16 people were killed and 59 injured, Ukraine's emergency services said. One of the last Ukrainian defenders of Sievierodonetsk said he withdrew in a boat, bitter to be leaving after weathering a weeks-long Russian onslaught on the ruined city but happy to be alive as he and others crossed the river to higher ground. Russian forces fully occupied the front-line eastern city on Saturday, both sides said, confirming Kyiv's biggest battlefield setback for more than a month following some of the war's bloodiest fighting. “It was a shame of course because a lot of effort was put into defending it — it went on for months,” Danylo, a 24-year-old soldier who said he was among almost the last to leave, said. “But... we're not too upset as we also want to live.” Turkish defence firm Baykar said on Monday it would donate three unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) to Ukraine, after a crowdfunding campaign there raised enough funds to buy "several" of the Bayraktar TB2 model. The TB2 has been hugely popular in Ukraine, where it helped destroy Russian artillery systems and armoured vehicles. It even became the subject of a patriotic expletive-strewn hit song in Ukraine that mocked Russian troops, with the chorus "Bayraktar, Bayraktar". Baykar said the crowdfunding campaign in Ukraine had reached the milestone in a few days and that business leaders as well ordinary people contributed to the fund. "Baykar will not accept payment for the TB2s, and will send three UAVs free of charge to the Ukrainian war front," the company said in a statement. "We ask that raised funds be remitted instead to the struggling people of Ukraine," it said. Russia has previously complained to Turkey over its sale of Bayraktar TB2 armed drones to Ukraine, a high level Turkish bureaucrat said, but added that the sales by Baykar, a private company, were not state-to-state deals. Turkey has forged close ties with Russia in energy, defence and trade, and relies heavily on Russian tourists. Baykar had sold the drones to Kyiv despite Russian objections and signed a deal to co-produce more before the invasion, angering Moscow. The TB2, which has also been used in the conflicts in Syria, Iraq, Libya and Nagorno-Karabakh, now spearheads Turkey's global defence export push. Lithuania's defence ministry said earlier this month that Turkey's Defence Industry Agency would donate a TB2 to Lithuania for transfer to Ukraine after Lithuanians crowdfunded nearly 6 million euros to buy it. Reuters Two Russian missiles slammed into a crowded shopping center in the Ukrainian city of Kremenchuk, killing at least 10 people. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said more than 1,000 people were in the mall at the time of the attack.