Mamelodi Sundowns chairman Thlopie Motsepe says it is up to midfielder Sipho Mbule to quickly adopt the club’s culture of discipline and  make good at Chloorkop. The Brazilians signed the highly talented but self-destructive playmaker from cross-town rivals SuperSport United and Motsepe has challenged him to acclimatise and become a success at the club. With their participation in the CAF Champions League and always competing for honours in all three domestic competitions, Sundowns play a large volume of matches. “I can say right now that Sipho Mbule is training while the rest of the team is taking a well-deserved break,” said Motsepe while announcing the club’s youth internship programme to provide deserving young people with soft skills in TikTok content creation, photography, production video editing, journalism and writing and marketing activation and supporter mobilisation. “Already, he has his the mentality of saying  he wants to make a good impression on his team-mates and on the coaches. His mind is already looking  in that direction.” Motsepe said they  had structures and  experienced senior players to help new arrivals. “But it is not the chairman’s job to get the player to  think in a different way or to take the club seriously, but it starts with him as a player. We have an incredible group of senior players like Denis Onyango and Kennedy Mweene who have seen players come in and have helped in this culture that we have at the club. “A great example of a player who has now adapted to this culture and  is a shining light is Andile Jali. Look at how he has performed this season, before his arrival maybe there were statements and considerations where there were questions where he would end up or whether he will survive. “We are very excited about where the club is going. Our coaches are the custodians of the culture of this football club and they have done a great job so far.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.