Spotlight is our entertainment bite-sized snapshot featuring new entertainment releases in SA, exclusive film trailers and much more. New episodes are out every Thursday on Sunday Times Lifestyle, Sowetan Entertainment and on YouTube, plus you can follow Spotlight on Facebook. This week’s Spotlight episode is tickled yellow as everybody’s favourite mischievous Minions visit our studio in real life, a highlight you will want to see. Fun, and chaos for Collette, cameramen and prize-winners, follows Bob, Stuart and Kevin we take a closer look at this week’s big cinema release, Minions: The Rise of Gru. Also available on 3D and IMAX, this is the backstory of how young Gru found his little Minion companions, and the adventures that ensue as they escape the clutches of a villainous group, the Vicious 6. Spotlight also checked in at the cinema pre-screening and got fan reactions on camera. With his film featuring the voices of Steve Carell, Taraji P Henson, Michelle Yeoh and Jean-Claude van Damme, director Kyle Balda (Despicable Me, The Lorax) delivers entertainment for all ages. Spotlight also attended the launch of SA’s very own presenter on the popular Nat Geo Wild series, Snakes in the City.  Mbali Mtshali will be making her debut in season 8 of this series, joining Simon Keys and Siouxsie Gillett, from July 6 on the Disney+ streaming service (which also includes Nat Geo Wild as a channel option). Don’t miss our exclusive interview with Mbali about her journey to being a snake catcher. Adrenalin and thrills are to be found at cinemas this week in the horror movie Men.  Directed by Alex Garland (Ex Machina, Annihilation, FX), widowed Harper Marlowe (Jessie Buckley) hopes to find healing on a countryside holiday, only to face a nightmare inhabited by her darkest memories and fears. Look out for the Elvis Quiz Night coverage, held in Sandton, following on from the overwhelming rave reviews for Austin Butler’s performance in Elvis, now showing at cinemas. For full interviews, breaking news, trailers, clips and competition details, visit our Spotlight Facebook page. See you at the movies! Presenter Collette Prince is styled and dressed by We Are Egg. Shop online. We Are Egg is a beautifully curated, experiential department store of local and international fashion, beauty, home, jewellery and food. More details on Instagram about Collette's look of the week here. This week Spotlight is giving away Minions: The Rise of Gru movie merchandise, and also stand in line to win some Nat Geo Wild Snakes in the City hampers. To enter, visit the Spotlight South Africa Facebook page. Terms and conditions apply. Winners will be drawn randomly and notified by SMS after the competition has closed.  Entrants’ personal details will not be retained for marketing purposes. Winners have to provide proof of age (ID/driver’s licence) and cover their own travel and accommodation expenses. By entering participants agree to have their names published on TimesLIVE, SowetanLIVE and Spotlight South Africa on Facebook. Employees of Arena Holdings and their family members are not eligible to enter.