Need a happy boost? Turn to these grooming trends to add daringly cool accents to your routine and raise your happy hormones. The grooming landscape today  looks a lot different than it did a couple years ago. From a time when grooming didn’t stretch past getting a beard trim, using a comprehensive but easy-to-follow skincare routine and choosing cologne over a body spray-roll on combo – the parameters in which grooming once played have been shattered.  Given the global movement towards all things that foster a happy state of being, men have been using their grooming choices to not only look on the outside but feel good on the inside. Taking cues from retro icons such as David Bowie, Kurt Cobain and Prince who were known for their rebelliously artistic expressions with make-up – there has been a rise in dopamine-inducing trends seen on the red carpets, runways and streets by way of male manicures or “male art” and a graduation in the use of make-up surpassing tinted moisturiser and guy liner. Today, modern stars such as Jared Leto, Shawn Mendes, Evan Mock, Kid Cudi and Bad Bunny can be all found with a spot of glitter, crystalline embellishments and nail art and have not only popularised these trends but become advocates for men grooming however they like, and wearing nail and make-up trends with confidence. A growing trend that is not only breaking the box of what is considered masculine, dopamine grooming is allowing a men to have way more fun with their grooming without judgement. From subtle eye embellishments to gender-fluid hair – the era of dopamine grooming has begun. In the era of maximalism, it’s a delight to see micro accessories taking over from their oversized counterparts. However, dainty hair accessories by way of pearlescent hair clips are not just reserved for women any more but served as the unexpected gender-fluid trend seen on stars such as Jared Leto and Yahya Abdul-Mateen at the Met Gala, who paired tailored suits with embellished pearlescent hair clips interwoven into their hair or dreadlocks. If micro-hair accessories are not your speed, channel the Shakespearean grooming trend that has had a big revival over the years – the singular earring. As seen on the Dior Men runways, the models made a habit of micro-accessorizing at every show by way of a dainty singular earring in pearl, jewel or metal hardware finishes. We are all quite aware that the world’s obsession with Euphoria make-up has been newly energised so we knew it wouldn’t be long until rhinestones and sparkle on the eyes got a gender-fluid interpretation on celebs such as Kid Cudi and Machine Gun Kelly, who sported rhinestoned eyes and pearl-ladened facial contours that brought a new-found level of fun to Euphoria-inspired make-up for all genders. The addition of a flash of neon is enough to raise those happy hormones so add a wash across lids if you’re feeling brave or keep it subtle by focusing placement to just the inner corners or lining your waterline with a neon eyeliner to give guy-liner a dopamine twist. Nothing says “feel good” quite like a neon colour story so take your cue from Dior’s Men's Pre-Fall 2020 Runway show that saw make-up artist Peter Phillips use neon green washes of shadow across the models’ brow bones, lids and nose bridge. Let the fun begin and enter the world of male art by taking your cue from nail-art masters such as ASAP Rocky with the addition of creative designs and trending colours. 