Striking Eskom employees continued with their protest action at  eight power stations on Monday. Eskom spokesperson Sikonathi Mantshantsha said police have been roped in to assist Eskom security with maintaining order at the power stations. Mantshantsha said striking workers are picketing outside Eskom facilities, including the Kusile, Hendrina, Medupi and Lethabo power stations. Some employees went on an unprotected strike last  Tuesday after a deadlock in wage negotiations. On Friday Eskom was granted a court order stopping the unprotected strike  at nine  power stations and facilities. Incidents of intimidation of employees and blocking roads to power stations and facilities  were reported.  As a result, load-shedding was on Friday ramped up to stage 4 and Eskom  said it would  continue  until Wednesday. However, the power utility warned  the load-shedding  stage could increase or decrease at short notice. “We are operating under an unfavourable situation. It is not an ideal situation  we find ourselves in and things can go either way when it comes to load-shedding,” Mantshantsha said. He said Eskom management is constantly in touch with  union leaders and  the good relationship  management has with the union leaders is helping to calm workers in some situations. Concerning the wage increase demands, Mantshantsha said Eskom found the demands unaffordable and  has referred the matter to the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA). Business Day reported last week that  the National Union of Metalworkers of SA (Numsa) and National Union of Mineworkers, which represent most of Eskom’s workforce of about 42,300 workers, wanted a one-year, 15% pay rise across the board, while Solidarity is demanding a 5.5% overall increase. Numsa has since reduced its demand to 12%. NUM is demanding 10%. The newspaper said Eskom is offering a one-year pay hike deal for increases of 5.3%, 4.5% and 4% for its 28,374 employees in the bargaining unit. Employees in the bargaining unit are spread across different salary scales. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.