The high court in Middelburg on Monday convicted Harry Johannes Knoesen, the self-professed leader of a terrorist group known as the National Christian Resistance Movement, also known as the “Crusaders”, on five counts  including high treason. Knoesen was charged  with Eric and Erroll Abrams for planning to engage in terrorist activities. The Abrams brothers pleaded guilty  and were sentenced. Knoesen, who  also  faced  charges of incitement to carry out terrorist attacks, soliciting support and/or recruiting people to carry out terrorist attacks , and unlawful possession of a firearm and  ammunition, pleaded not guilty. The case was postponed  to Friday for sentencing proceedings. The unemployed 64-year-old, who lived with his fiancée in Middelburg, “had developed a deep-rooted hatred for the nonracial democratic dispensation”, according to the state. In the indictment, the state said the terrorist activity would have involved the systematic, repeated or arbitrary use of violence by any means or method. “The  terrorist activities would have  been perpetrated by using firearms, assault rifles, hand grenades, rocket launchers and explosive devices. The attacks would have been directed against people and institutions  of the SA government as well as African  SA citizens and certain sectors of the émigré community,” the indictment read. Knoesen also identified informal settlements  as targets for attack. He sought to justify his beliefs on religious grounds, claiming that God had ordained that he should reclaim SA for white people. To solicit support for the organisation and  recruit members to achieve his objectives, Knoesen created a Facebook account. He appealed to  people with previous military experience to join and carry out attacks. Numerous other propaganda posts were made for the same purpose. He also created  documents setting out his attack plans which were intended to be sent to members of the organisation. This recruitment drive led to several like-minded fanatics joining the organisation. As the membership of the organisation grew he began holding meetings  around the country, where he unveiled  plans to overthrow the government and kill Africans. At a stage unknown to the state, Knoesen acquired weapons and ammunition to carry out his  attacks. Over the weekend of November 16 and 17 2019,  he and a small group of  members met at the Sterkfontein Dam near  Harrismith in the Free State. The  meeting was to plan  attacks in  parts of the country where the members of cells operated. During this meeting Knoesen  called for indiscriminate shooting at African people in the streets. The police had, however, become aware of his activities and on November 28 2019 he was arrested at his residence in Middelburg. Documentation relevant to the planning of the attacks and information relating to  members of the organisation and their cells were also found. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.