There has been quite a bit of buzz around this year’s event as Decorex takes a much needed fresh approach to the country’s most prestigious and long-standing décor and design show. This year the event takes place at the Cape Town International Convention Centre  from  June 16 to 19, and offers an extensive line-up of exciting  launches that include new furniture brands  and product releases, collaborations and local design initiatives. Here are  a few things you can look forward to seeing  when you get your design fix of the year. Hoop, a Cape Town based design studio, will  launchi their brand and first  collection at this year’s show. Their collection consists of solid wood flat pack furniture pieces that promise to take the pain out of assembling while offering state of the art furniture for all. Award-winning design trio Studio Lloyd will  launch their new Sayari Collection featuring a  sleek daybed  we all have our  eyes on. Other exciting new releases are Cape Town-based design studio Bofred’s new Villa Collection, described as “a quiet call to adventure — a reminder that a great big world awaits, and that it is filled with boundless beauty”, and Yaniv Chen from Master Studio’s Conservatory Collections that promise to create a nostalgic connection by skilfully combining the past and  present through design and interiors. Next 22, a curated hub,  will showcase 28 export local brands presented by the Craft and Design Institute. The collection  includes the best craft and design the country has to offer, from established brands to newcomers, and will consist of existing product lines  and new products that will include work by master weaver Angeline Masuku and Woza Moya. This year celebrates women in architecture with the Herperspective project presenting an exhibition of the positive impact women have had on the built environment with their main focus on the Global South. Clout SA celebrates young local design talent with a retrospective exhibition that will showcase eight years of design created by Hot Young Designers in association with Nando’s, plus it will be  timed with Youth Day. Another  new and exciting exhibition to look out for is 100% Chair, curated by Bielle Bellingham, who pushed designers to create  new products specifically for this exhibition. Leading local designers such as Haldane Martin, Pedersen & Lennard, Houtlander, Bofred and  more will  take part in this exhibition that is sure to stand out at this year’s event. • Decorex Cape Town will be held from  June 16 to 19 at the  CTICC and Decorex Joburg from  July 28 to 31  at the Sandton Convention Centre. For more information visit decorex.co.za Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.