Limpopo-born musician and music producer MasterKG and songstress Nomcebo Zikode's song Jerusalema  this week reached the 500-million mark. Taking to his Instagram on Monday Master KG shared the exciting news, and in statement shared with TshisaLIVE  by Open Mic Records, the star thanked fans worldwide. “I am indebted to the fans around the world who continue to show Jerusalema so much love. I never thought one day we would be sitting at a half a billion views on YouTube for Jerusalema, but here we are. It was all a dream. My heart is full of gratitude and I’m inspired to create more and keep flying the SA flag high,” said Master KG. Nomcebo also headed to her Instagram timeline to share her excitement and speaking to TshisaLIVE she said she felt blessed and honored that Jerusalema was still making waves two years later. "I feel very blessed and honoured that a song I wrote and sang would touch so many lives, that it would be the song that would give hope to the world during a pandemic and still continues to do so till this day. I feel very happy to be part of this achievement and I thank God for giving me this blessing." Speaking to TshisaLIVE ahead of her fragrance launch Duchess in December last year  , she said Jerusalema was prayer, now is that prayer now answered two years later, Nomcebo believes it is. "Yes I do. When I wrote the song, I asked God to take me to a better place, I asked Him to please give me the opportunity to express myself through music and fulfil the burning desire I had to sing for our nation but He took it to the next level and exposed me to the world. I also feel like my prayer’s are being answered through all the opportunities I’ve been presented with and my new-found ability to assist others through my foundation (Nomcebo Zikode Foundation). As we speak, I’m responding to your questions from the back of performances in the Island of Mayotte, as part of my second World Tour. I can never thank God enough for this." Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.