It's not the first time Gift of the givers Founder and chairperson Imtiaz Sooliman has suggested preventative measures for  SA's water crisis. The humanitarian relief organisation is assisting Nelson Mandela Bay and  Kouga municipality with a water crisis that has left thousands of Eastern Cape residents with dry taps as dam levels reach an all-time low. Gift of the Givers  said the Mandela Bay Business Chamber, NMB Development Agency, NMB municipality, corporate companies, SAPS, private engineers, hydrologists and drillers  were working in partnership to  help the city and distressed community. "The first step was to have a discussion to see how we can fix the problem. We are all on the same page because without team work, nothing will get done," Sooliman said. "SA is a water deprived country, we don't have enough water resources. We should have learnt that a long time ago. "Water and health are inseparable. Every school, hospital and clinic should have a borehole as a preventative measure." After  discussions and investigations into the Nelson Mandela Bay and Kouga water crisis, they will use simple strategies to assist where they can. The strategies include  opening up  existing boreholes and new boreholes being drilled. Gift of the Givers  has started drilling the first of  10 boreholes at Alpha Primary School "with a view to progressing to thirty boreholes". "In addition, Gift of the Givers will sponsor JoJo tanks (supported by the business chamber and donors in general), provide two 34,000l water tankers provided by Coke and will look into drilling boreholes at the Elizabeth Donkin psychiatric facility, other hospitals and schools. Additional interventions will be considered dependent on resources. A special gratitude to Sunfoil Oil that has contributed R5m  towards the drilling of boreholes. The support of corporates will be welcomed for this emergency situation. "The population is expanding, but the water levels are not expanding as fast as the population because we are not  building any bigger dams. Some dams are expanding, but it's taking too long. "In a crisis like this it is good that people have their own boreholes, not only for themselves, but to share." Refering to the water infrastructure destroyed  in the KwaZulu-Natal floods, Sooliman said: "People opened up their boreholes and opened up their hearts to anyone in the area to  come and take water." "So to have a backup source of a borehole if you can afford it is good. "Government should look at putting in boreholes throughout the country as a backup system" Dam walls should be extended where possible and  more dams built in catchment areas. Water shedding should be avoided because when the water doesn't run pipes crack and systems collapse and it's more expensive to fix and  more water is lost. " TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.