Germany must work harder to reduce its energy-dependence on Russia but western sanctions in response to Moscow's invasion of Ukraine are still taking a heavy toll on the Russian war machine, German Economy Minister Robert Habeck said on Thursday." The Russian economy is collapsing," Habeck told lawmakers, adding that exports to Russia from Germany had dropped by 60% in March with an even sharper fall expected in April." Putin is still getting money but ... time is not working for Russia, it is working against Russia," the minister said. Reuters Russia warned on Thursday that the European Union's decision to partially phase out Russian oil would likely destabilize global energy markets, calling it a 'self-destructive' step that could backfire on the bloc. EU leaders agreed in principle on Monday to cut 90% of oil imports from Russia by the end of this year, the bloc's toughest sanctions yet since the start of the invasion of Ukraine, which Moscow calls a "special military operation". "The European Union's decisions to partially phase out Russian oil and oil products, as well as to ban insurance on Russian merchant ships, are highly likely to provoke further price increases, destabilize energy markets, and disrupt supply chains," Russia's foreign ministry said in a statement. The EU has hit Russia with multiple rounds of sanctions since it invaded Ukraine in February, demonstrating uncharacteristic speed and unity given the complexity of the measures. European Council President Charles Michel said the move to phase out Russian oil would deprive Moscow of a huge source of financing and put pressure on it to end its military campaign, but Moscow warned that the measures would end up harming the bloc's economy." Brussels and its political sponsors in Washington bear full responsibility for the risk of an exacerbation in global food and energy issues caused by the illegitimate actions of the European Union," Russia's foreign ministry said. Reuters Russia's largest lender Sberbank has no need for additional capital, the Interfax news agency quoted chief executive German Gref as saying on Thursday. A senior central bank official said last month that some Russian banks would need additional capital and that the country's top 20 lenders would be assessed for their financial strength. Reuters Russia's defence ministry said on Thursday its military had downed a Ukrainian Su-25 fighter jet in the Mykolaiv region. It also said in a briefing that it had struck command points of Ukrainian forces near Kharkiv. It was not possible to independently confirm the information Reuters Pope Francis appealed to authorities on Wednesday to lift a block on exports of wheat from Ukraine, saying the grain could not be used as a "weapon of war". Many millions of people, particularly in the world's poorest countries, depend on wheat from Ukraine, the pope told a general audience of thousands of people gathered in St. Peter's Square, calling for the block to be lifted. The United Nations, which says a global food crisis is worsening, is trying to broker a deal to unblock Ukraine's grain exports, though Western leaders have blamed Russia for holding the world to ransom by blockading Ukrainian ports. The Russian government has removed export quotas on some fertilisers, the Interfax news agency said on Thursday. Extension of the non-tariff quota for di-ammonium phosphate (DAP), sodium nitrate and mixtures of calcium nitrate and ammonium nitrate has been deemed unworkable due to low demand from domestic farmers, the agency said citing the Russian Ministry of Industry and Trade. Russia has set quotas for fertiliser exports for July through December, saying in a statement on Tuesday it aimed to secure sufficient supply for domestic farmers.The restrictions extend measures introduced for the past six months. Reuters Eight school buses pulled into Lviv's central square, with their empty seats serving as a reminder of the 243 children killed since February 24, when Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Russia's National Settlement Depository will service the country's Eurobonds after Citibank stopped acting as a fiscal, transfer and payment agent, the finance ministry said on Thursday. The finance ministry also said that a delay in payments on its Russia-2022 Eurobond that were due on April 4 was caused by "unlawful actions" of foreign financial intermediaries. Reuters Slovakia will deliver eight self-propelled Zuzana 2 howitzers to Ukraine under a commercial contract which a state-controlled producer signed, the Slovak Defence Ministry said on Thursday. The Zuzana 2 howitzer, a modernised version of an older model, is using 155-mm rounds and has an effective range of 40 km (25 miles) to more than 50 km (30 miles) depending on the ammunition type. Reuters OPEC+ is working on compensating for a drop in Russian oil output, two OPEC+ sources said on Thursday, as Russia's production has fallen by around 1 million barrels per day in recent months as a result of Western sanctions on Moscow over Ukraine. One OPEC+ source familiar with the Russian position said Moscow could agree to other producers compensating for its lower output but it may not happen at a Thursday meeting and might not be in full. A Gulf OPEC+ source said a decision on the matter was "highly possible" at a meeting on Thursday. Reuters Novartis is resuming business in Ukraine after reviewing how safe it was to operate in the country that Russia invaded in February, the Swiss drugmaker said. "After studying current safety protocols in the country, and on advice which we will regularly review, we have begun to resume business operations remotely to help the war-torn country restore some basic critical business processes," Novartis said on its website in a post dated June 1. "The safety and security of our people remains our number one objective, and we will constantly review the situation and our business operations in Ukraine." Novartis said it condemned the war in Ukraine and has been providing humanitarian support, financial donations and medicine to people there. Russia describes its invasion as a "special military operation" to disarm and "de-Nazify" its neighbour. Reuters Ukrainian civilian and military personnel are in Kosovo, learning how to clear mines during an advanced four-week training course, before returning home to help in the huge task of removing mines and other explosives left during Russia's Ukraine invasion. From tour guides to tattoo artists, Taiwanese who have never held a gun before are taking shooting lessons for the first time, as Russia's invasion of Ukraine ramps up anxiety at the prospect of China making a similar move. In a boost for Ukraine, locked in a grinding struggle against Russia's invading army, the United States announced a new $700 million weapons package for Kyiv which will include advanced rocket systems.