The Premier Soccer League's (PSL) executive committee (exco) meeting on Monday on whether to allow crowds back into stadiums was adjourned until Tuesday when a decision is expected to be made. TimesLIVE is informed that correspondence was sent via email to DStv Premiership clubs informing  teams of the adjournment. The email apparently stated that the  committee would make  a decision on Tuesday and  hold a press conference on the outcome. The PSL has also since confirmed the adjournment and press conference. The government last week Tuesday  relaxed the restriction on  spectators at sports events to allow for a 50%  of capacity crowd. TimesLIVE reported on Monday morning that a rubber-stamping of crowds returning this to PSL games week, or even before the end of the 2021-2022 season, was not a formality. The PSL did not exercise the previous 2,000 person limit because clubs complained that a crowd of that size could not be profitable given the costs of hosting spectators, including security staff. Some clubs are apparently against a return even at  50% capacity. They have apparently argued that the cost of  enforcing provisions that spectators either be vaccinated or have a negative Covid-19 test no  older than 72 hours   meant  it would still be too expensive for clubs  that attract few spectators. However,  a frustrated club owner, who did not want to be named, told TimesLIVE  they believed such costs would be borne by ticket providing companies who sell tickets on behalf of PSL clubs and would be negligible in any event. The PSL, since this story was first published, confirmed the adjournment, and Tuesday's press conference. “The PSL executive committee met today, Monday, March 28, to consider the extent to which the Disaster Management Act and Sports, Arts and Culture regulations impact on the league's Covid-19 regulations to enable the return os spectators to matches,” the league said in a statement. “The meeting was adjourned and will reconvene tomorrow [Tuesday] morning. A press conference will be held after the meeting (at 2pm) to communicate the outcomes.” The PSL has moved at a  snail's pace on the government's eased restrictions, to the consternation of some clubs. Sports in other major codes moved swiftly to sell tickets on the  morning after President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement last week. Rugby franchises immediately advertised tickets for the past weekend's United Rugby Championship matches and Cricket SA sold 3,000 additional tickets for Wednesday's ODI between SA and Bangladesh at SuperSport Park. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.