The Johannesburg high court has found former JSE analyst Ntuthuko Shoba guilty of the premeditated murder of his pregnant girlfriend Tshegofatso Pule. Acting judge Stuart Wilson said on evaluating evidence before him, there was "no account of the facts before me that proves Shoba’s innocence." He said the evidence of Muzikayise Malephane, the man who confessed to killing Pule in June 2020 on Shoba's instructions, had to be treated with caution as he was a single witness. However, the court accepted that Shoba had communicated  with Malephane via an 081 number  and rejected Shoba's contention that he had only met Malephane to buy cigarettes. Malephane is serving a 20-year sentence for Pule’s murder. He became the state's key witness and detailed how he and Shoba had planned the murder. During the trial, the court was shown video footage of Pule and Shoba walking from his home to a vehicle that was driven by Malephane, who confessed to murdering Pule. It was the last time she had been seen alive. The eight-months pregnant Pule was found dead in Durban Deep. She had a gunshot wound to the chest and her bloodied body was found hanging on a tree. Her unborn baby did not survive. Pule's uncle said the guilty verdict confirmed the family’s suspicion that he was behind it. “Our suspicions were confirmed as fact. We knew and we suspected he is behind this. Today, the court proved our suspicions right,” Tumisang Katake said outside court. Wilson cleared Shoba on a charge of obstruction of justice. “In my view, there is no basis on which I can convict Shoba on obstruction,” he said. In his judgment, Wilson said: “Mr Shoba’s explanation for his dealings with Mr Malephane [the man Shoba hired to kill Pule] may safely be rejected as false.” “I do not accept that Shoba’s visits and telephone calls to Mr Malephane were about the purchase of cigarettes because I do not accept that Mr Malephane ever sold them.” He said Shoba’s visits to Malephane were about arranging Pule’s death. According to Wilson, Shoba “knowingly and intentionally” delivered Pule to Malephane on the night she was murdered. Pule’s friends and family, who were present in court when the judgment was handed down, broke down in tears as Wilson found Shoba guilty. “Hamba njandini [go you dog],” shouted one person from the gallery. Others could be heard saying Shoba got what he deserved. Scores of people, including EFF members gathered outside the court to support the Pule family. They were carrying placards and chanting songs that were sending a message that Pule deserved to rot in jail. Katake said everyone was emotional as it had been a “difficult” journey”. “Everyone has been emotional, not because he has been found guilty but it’s been a tough road for us,” he said. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Phindi Mjonondwane said they welcomed the judgment and would argue for a life sentence. “We hope the court will dispense a sentence that will send a message that our courts abhor acts of gender-based violence and give hope to all the women out there who suffer from GBV,” Mjonondwane said. Shoba is due back in court on May 10 for sentencing proceedings. Katake said whether or not Shoba received a life sentence for the murder, it would not bring back Pule. “He can get life but his family will still have a chance to talk to him and ask how he feels. We don’t have the chance anymore with Tshegofatso. “If we have to talk to Tshegofatso, we have to visit her grave. That is something we as a family will have to live it for the rest of our lives. “Today could have been an opportunity for the Shoba family to approach the Pule family to apologise.” TimesLIVE