There's nothing quite as delicious and satisfying as making bread from scratch. It's real soul food that starts with the unique aroma that fills the home with anticipation of a warm slice of bread slathered with butter. Bread is best eaten fresh on the day of making, or can be frozen for up to three months. Makes: 18 slices Prep and Cooking Time: 60 mins Ingredients: 375g (3 cups) cake wheat flour 5ml (1 tsp) table salt 1 sachet instant yeast 10ml (2 tsp) sugar 160ml (⅔ cup) warm water 125ml (½ cup) warm milk 30ml (2 tbsp) butter or margarine, melted. Or use same amount of vegetable oil Method: Ring the changes using the basic dough to make four different loaves. Using the basic white bread dough recipe, replace half the cake wheat flour with half wholewheat flour and replace the milk with warm water. Boil 500g chopped, peeled butternut for 10 minutes or until just tender then drain well. Transfer to a bowl and mash with a fork or process in food processor. Cool completely. Make up the dough using the basic white bread recipe, adjusting the liquid as follows: use 80ml (⅓ cup) warm water and 60ml (¼ cup) warm milk, add the mashed butternut after adding the liquid and continue with the recipe. Dust lightly with flour before baking. For a sweeter loaf you could add a handful of raisins. Make a basic white bread dough as per recipe above. Combine 2 tablespoons (30ml) mixed seeds with 5ml (1 tsp) sea salt. Just before placing the bread into the oven, brush the top lightly with beaten egg and sprinkle over seed and salt mixture, pressing down lightly to stop them falling off. Bake as per recipe. Make dough for basic white bread. Add 160ml ⅔ cup) chopped pitted green or black olives and 15ml (1 tbsp) chopped fresh rosemary or origanum in step 5 after you’ve gently kneaded the dough, then roll it out into a rectangle. Sprinkle over the chopped olives and herbs then roll up and knead gently to incorporate ingredients. Divide the dough into two  and roll each into a ball and place side by side in a bread tin. Just before baking lightly brush the top of the dough with water and sprinkle over 15ml (1 tbsp) fine polenta and bake as directed.