Ukrainian Finance Minister Serhiy Marchenko said on Monday he believed the hryvnia currency rate would remain stable. "Exchange rate stability will be maintained," he said on national television. Reuters Russia has not asked China for military assistance and has sufficient military clout to fulfil all of its aims in Ukraine in time and in full, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Monday. U.S. officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, had said that Russia had asked China for military equipment. Reuters The premises of an underground gas storage facility in the Chernihiv region of Ukraine have been damaged by shelling, the Ukrainian state gas company Naftogaz said on Monday. A shell hit a building on the territory of Olyshiv storage unit and damaged a methanol pumping station.Gas storage personnel were evacuated and nobody was hurt, Naftogaz said. Reuters Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy addresses the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Spain expects "in the coming hours" to approve emergency purchases of corn from Argentina and the United States for animal feed after supply gaps left by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Agriculture Minister Luis Planas said on Monday. The country, as a major buyer of animal feed corn from Ukraine, was pushing the European Commission to waive import controls. On Friday, the relevant committee of the European Commission authorised member states to lift some technical restrictions linked to the existing maximum pesticide residue limit for animal feed with "full guarantee and safety of the agri-food trade", Planas said on Monday at an event in Madrid. "Today we will meet with the import sector and we hope in the next few hours to issue a resolution that will allow us to overcome this technical hurdle," he explained. Planas added that there were no obstacles to also allow imports of corn for animal feed from the United States. Reuters Frontline towns near Ukraine's capital city in the Kyiv region are being successfully evacuated for the fifth day in a row, regional governor Oleksiy Kuleba said in a televised interview on Monday. "The ceasefire in our region is holding, albeit it is very conditional," said Kuleba, adding that occasional explosions could be heard in the distance from the place he was stationed. Reuters The fourth round of talks between Ukraine and Russia on Monday will focus on achieving a ceasefire, troop withdrawals and security guarantees for Ukraine, one of the Ukrainian negotiators Mykhailo Podolyak said. Ukraine's position remained unchanged in insisting on a ceasefire before talks on future relations could happen, he said in a social media post and accompanying video. "Negotiations. 4th round. On peace, ceasefire, immediate withdrawal of troops & security guarantees. Hard discussion," he wrote, adding that he believed Russia "still has a delusion that 19 days of violence against (Ukrainian) peaceful cities is the right strategy. "Russia denies targeting civilians. The Kremlin describes its actions as a "special operation" to demilitarise and "deNazify" Ukraine. Ukraine and Western allies call this a baseless pretext for a war of choice. Reuters Ben C. Solomon speaks exclusively with Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv. Britain will donate more than 500 mobile generators to help Ukraine and weaken Russia's attempts to cripple its power supply, Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng said on Monday, adding that they would be enough to power 20,000 buildings. "Sending portable electricity generators to Ukraine will help keep essential services running, weaken (Russian President Vladimir) Putin's attempts to cripple Ukraine’s power supply, and help support the extraordinarily brave Ukrainian response to the Kremlin’s war waging," Kwarteng said in a statement.The government said the generators would be provided by British commercial suppliers. Russia's finance ministry said on Monday it had approved a temporary procedure for repaying foreign currency debt, but warned that payments would be made in roubles if sanctions prevent banks from honouring debts in the currency of issue. Western sanctions over events in Ukraine have cut Russia off from key parts of global financial markets, triggering its worst economic crisis since the 1991 fall of the Soviet Union. "Claims that Russia cannot fulfil its sovereign debt obligations are untrue," Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said in a statement. "We have the necessary funds to service our obligations. "The government is due to pay $117 million on two of its dollar-denominated bonds on Wednesday. The ministry said it had approved a temporary procedure to allow banks to make payments in foreign currency, but said the possibility of those payments going through would depend on sanctions. Several Russian banks have been banned from the SWIFT international payments network, hampering efforts to move money outside of Russia. If payments are not possible, the finance ministry said it would make Eurobond repayments in roubles, which is tantamount to a default. The rouble has dived to record lows in recent weeks. "The freezing of the central bank and government's foreign currency accounts can be seen as a desire from several Western countries to organise an artificial default," Siluanov said. Reuters Russia sees no reason for United Nations peacekeepers to be sent to Ukraine, RIA news agency quoted the Russian foreign ministry as saying. Pyotr Ilyichev, director of the minitry's international organisations department, said there was no need for peacekeepers as Russia was in control, RIA reported. A new round of talks between Russia and Ukraine will be held on Monday via video link and will start at 10:30 am Kyiv time. Reuters The price of oil declined following a volatile week of trading after Ukraine’s president said talks with Moscow show signs of becoming more substantive, prompting cautious optimism about steps towards de-escalation. Futures in New York fell more than 2% to trade below $107 (about R1,614) a barrel after rising on Friday. The war in Ukraine has roiled commodity markets from crude to grains, leading to buyers shunning Russian oil as they navigate sanctions, though some are considering workarounds. Russia asked China for military ​equipment to ​support its invasion of Ukraine, US officials said, ​sparking concern in ​the White House that Beijing ​could undercut Ukrainian forces’ defence efforts. On Monday the US and China plan to hold their first high-level, in-person talks since Moscow’s invasion. An aide to US President Joe Biden warned Russian air strikes had shifted further west toward Ukraine’s border with Poland, but said there had been no change in the calculus around a no-fly zone. A strike at a military range and training centre about 35km from Poland killed dozens on Sunday, and an estimated nine civilians died in air strikes on Mykolaiv. Tens of thousands tried to flee fighting in major cities through 10 humanitarian corridors opened by the Ukrainian government. Japan has urged crypto exchanges not to process transactions involving crypto assets subject to asset-freeze sanctions against Russia and Belarus, officials said on Monday. The government will work as one to strengthen measures against the transfer of funds using crypto assets that would be in violation of the sanctions, the Ministry of Finance and Financial Services Agency (FSA) said in a joint statement. Unauthorised payments to targets under sanctions, including in crypto assets - such as cryptocurrency and non-fungible tokens - are subject to punishment of up to three years in prison or a 1 million yen ($8,487.52) fine, the FSA said. The move follows growing concerns among Group of Seven advanced economies that cryptocurrencies are being used by Russian entities as a loophole for financial sanctions imposed upon the country for invading Ukraine. Reuters March 14 2022 - 06:10 Russian missiles hit a large Ukrainian base in Yavoriv near the border with NATO member Poland, killing 35 people and wounding 134, a local official said, in an escalation of the war to the west of the country as intense fighting was reported elsewhere. March 14 2022 - 06:05 March 14 2022 - 06:00