Thirty buses are en route to the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol to collect evacuees via a humanitarian corridor to Ukraine-controlled territory, deputy prime minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on television on Tuesday. There were signs Russian forces were firing in the direction of a route for humanitarian aid, she added, without providing further details. Reuters London’s marine insurance market has widened the area of waters around the Black Sea and Sea of Azov that it deems high risk, as Russia's invasion of Ukraine intensifies and perils to merchant shipping grow. Marine insurers said in advisory dated March 7 that the high risk area had been widened to waters close to Romania and Georgia after initially adding Russian and Ukrainian waters in the Black Sea and Sea of Azov in February. Guidance from the insurance industry's Joint War Committee is watched closely and influences underwriters’ considerations over insurance premiums. Reuters Russia's growing reliance on longer-range strikes on Ukrainian targets is increasing the number of civilian casualties and damage to civilian infrastructure, the Pentagon said The Russian and Ukrainian ambassadors to the United Nations hit out at each other at a Security Council meeting called to discuss the worsening humanitarian crisis in Ukraine. Banking is an asymmetric business. You make modest amounts of money most of the time and occasionally you suffer extraordinary losses. A small fraction of your assets going bad can trash a material percentage of your earnings. This is the reality many banks face as they size up their exposure to Russia. European bank stocks, in particular, have suffered steep declines since the invasion in Ukraine began, and the cost of insuring their debt has risen. There are four ways US and European banks are exposed. Higher commodity costs linked to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine risk slowing down the Democratic Republic of the Congo’s (DRC) economic recovery from the coronavirus pandemic, the International Monetary Fund warned. Crude has soared by almost a third since the start of the war to a 2008 high of more than $126. The surge could squeeze the DRC’s budget for development spending as the government subsidises fuel prices, the IMF said Monday in an e-mailed statement, after a weeklong mission led by Mercedes Vera Martin to evaluate the lender’s loan agreement with the Central African nation. European gas futures jumped as much as 32% after Russia threatened to cut natural gas supplies to Europe via the existing Nord Stream pipeline. In a further deterioration relations between Moscow and the European Union, Russia threatened to halt gas flowing along the pipeline to Germany. The warning is part of Russia’s response to international sanctions imposed on the country following its invasion of Ukraine. No decision has been taken yet, according to Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak. Gas prices surged after climbing as much as 79% on Monday in the most volatile trading conditions markets in Europe have ever seen. The United States is willing to move ahead with a ban on Russian oil imports without the participation of allies in Europe, two people familiar with the matter said, in light of Russia's invasion of Ukraine Two fires broke out at oil depots in the Zhytomyr region of Ukraine, with the country's State Emergency Services saying they were caused by Russian air strikes Germany will host a virtual meeting of agricultural ministers from G7 countries on Friday to discuss the impact of Russia's invasion of Ukraine on global food security and how to best stabilise food markets, the government said. “The provision of foodstuffs in Germany and the European Union is safe but greater shortages can be expected in some countries outside the EU — especially where scarcity already reigns today due to issues like drought,” German Agriculture Minister Cem Oezdemir said in statement. Singer Dolly Parton dedicated the Academy of Country Music Awards show to the people of Ukraine on Monday during a music-filled ceremony that saw Miranda Lambert crowned entertainer of the year. Taking the stage in a mirrored jumpsuit, Parton made one of two tributes to Ukraine while opening the annual awards ceremony at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas. The show was live-streamed on Prime Video for the first time. "I want us to send our love and hope to our brothers and sisters in Ukraine. Why don't we just dedicate this entire show to them and pray for peace," the 76-year-old country music matriarch said to loud applause. Brad Tursi of Old Dominion thanked Parton for the dedication as the band accepted their award for group of the year, adding that it felt strange to be celebrating while "people are fighting for their lives. "The invasion of Ukraine by Russia has caused 1.7 million people to flee and triggered fears of wider conflict in the West. Miranda Lambert won the night's top award, entertainer of the year, following a year in which she released hit album "The Marfa Tapes" with singer-songwriters Jon Randall and Jack Ingram to critical acclaim. Lambert accepted her award via live-stream from London, where she is scheduled to perform this week.Other big winners included Morgan Wallen for his best album, "Dangerous," and Jason Aldean and Carrie Underwood for song of the year, "If I Didn't Love You. "Chris Stapleton was named male artist of the year and Carly Pearce was awarded female artist of the year.Kelly Clarkson performed a stirring version of "I Will Always Love You" in tribute to Parton, who hosted the show alongside Jimmy Allen and Gabby Barrett. Reuters Estee Lauder Companies Inc said on Monday it had decided to suspend all commercial activities in Russia, including closing all its stores in the country. The company will also suspend brand sites and shipments to its retailers in Russia, it added. Reuters OPEC has no control over the events that have led to the run up in global oil prices and there is not enough capacity worldwide to compensate for the loss of Russian supply, OPEC Secretary-General Mohammad Barkindo said As a flood of Ukrainian refugees fleeing a Russian invasion pours over the borders into neighboring nations, the people bring with them harrowing stories of hardship. Foreign fighters say they volunteered to fight for Ukraine to halt what they view as an unprovoked attack by Russia in a once-in-a-generation showdown between the forces of democracy and dictatorship. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken sought to reassure Washington's Baltic allies who fear President Vladimir Putin will not stop at Ukraine in trying to redraw the borders of Europe.