Gauteng police have arrested about 2000 suspects over the long weekend  for various offences. This was during  multidisciplinary integrated operations conducted jointly with metro police, traffic departments, the department of home affairs, community policing forums and private  security companies. Police spokesperson Col Dimakatso Sello said the operations included tracing  wanted suspects, roadblocks, stop and searches, compliance at liquor outlets and second-hand dealerships. “About 2000 suspects were arrested  for  offences such as possession of illegal firearms, possession of suspected stolen property, drinking under the influence, murder, undocumented people and  domestic violence-related issues. The police also seized drugs, dangerous weapons, liquor, firearms and ammunition.” In the Ekurhuleni district,  935 suspects were arrested for  crimes including carjacking, murder,  pointing  a firearm, dealing in drugs, failure to comply with the Liquor Act and business robbery. “A  hijacked vehicle was  recovered and a suspect was arrested shortly after allegedly stabbing his neighbour to death.  Police in the Tshwane district arrested 250 suspects.  Among  those arrested  are 96 suspects for gender-based violence-related crimes and 37 undocumented people.” West Rand district police, together with other law enforcement agencies,  arrested 214 suspects for crimes including rape,  robbery, possession of copper cable, dealing  in liquor without a licence, possession of dangerous weapons and undocumented people. “Police in the Johannesburg district arrested 527 suspects for hijackings, sexual assault, possession of drugs, rape, armed robbery  and contravention of the Immigration Act. The police in the Sedibeng district arrested 118 suspects  for possession of stolen property, possession of drugs, possession of unlicensed firearm, housebreaking and theft.” Some  suspects were issued with fines while  others are expected to appear  in various magistrates' courts  soon. Gauteng acting  police commissioner Maj- Gen Girly Mbele  thanked the law enforcement agencies involved as well as  community members for the  support and co-operation they showed during the operations. “Some of the arrests  would not have been possible if community members did not come  forward with information and  reported  criminal activities. Let us continue working together in the fight against crime,” said Mbele. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.