Thirty-two members of staff at  Helen Joseph Hospital in Gauteng have been assaulted by psychiatric patients since the beginning of the year. This is according to Gauteng health MEC Nomathemba Mokgethi who responded in a written reply to a query  from DA Gauteng shadow health MEC Jack Bloom. The patients have also caused “extensive property damage”  at the hospital. Last week  Sunday Times spoke to a senior member of staff at the hospital who said the psychiatric departments were in crisis, as patients who did not have access to, or were not taking their medication, had worsening symptoms and were not stable. She said  long queues of these patients, some  suffering psychotic conditions, made the environment unsafe for staff and patients. She spoke anonymously  out of fear of retribution  from the hospital. In a statement on Tuesday, Bloom said incidents have  increased because of a massive increase in the number of psychiatric patients after the fire at  Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital closed  its psychiatric unit. “Staff live in fear because of the violence from psychiatric patients.” The reported incidents at Helen Joseph include: He said other staff members have  been slapped, scratched and  molested. “The property damage includes many broken windows, doors damaged, tampering with electrical cables and breaking of basins, taps and toilets. A bed and mattress were  set alight.” Bloom said there were only 45 beds for psychiatric patients but the hospital sees about 90 psychiatric patients every day. A shortage of toilets for patients was also an issue. “Desperate staff  call other psychiatric units every day for  beds but  usually none are available.” According to Mokgethi, they have  “attempted to discharge patients who, despite not yet being psychiatrically well, are deemed a low risk to self or others and have opened a discharge clinic on a Monday to review these patients in the outpatient department”. Bloom said extra staff and security were  urgently needed, but the real problem was the  continued closure of psychiatric wards at Charlotte Maxeke and the general shortage of beds in the province for mental health patients. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.