An outcome in the arbitration between Kaizer Chiefs and the Premier Soccer League (PSL) regarding two fixtures the club failed to honour is expected on Tuesday next week. The arbitration regarding the case where Chiefs asked for postponements for their DStv Premiership matches in December amid  31 cases of Covid-19, which grew to more than 50,  but had their request declined by the PSL, was heard on Tuesday and Wednesday. TimesLIVE understands that arguments were heard and completed over the two days, and that the arbitrator, advocate Nazeer Cassim SC, said he would give his outcome on Tuesday. The case — involving the matches Chiefs did not honour home to Cape Town City and away against Lamontville Golden Arrows in December — can have a huge bearing on Amakhosi’s 2021-22 Premiership season. Chiefs are a huge 16 points behind runaway leaders Mamelodi Sundowns in the league, but have four games in hand. Mathematically, if they won all four of the outstanding matches, that would give them 12 points and take Chiefs within four points of Downs. But if the arbitration decision goes the PSL’s way, Chiefs would then almost certainly lose the six points from the two games they missed in a disciplinary committee, and that would put an end to any hope of them at the very least even pressurising the four-time consecutive champions Sundowns. Amakhosi applied on December 3 to have four matches in that month postponed due to a huge outbreak Covid-19, which the club said required them to shut down their headquarters at Naturena and send staff, players and coaches to isolate. Chiefs were adamant they could not put together a team, even using reserve players. The club’s application in December was rejected by the PSL's football department, then referred to the executive committee, which also turned it down. Chiefs have appealed against that decision at arbitration at Safa. Their legal team, led by respected advocate and sports administrator  Norman Arendse SC, were sure to have argued that Amakhosi had no choice but to follow national safety protocols and the country’s Covid-19 regulations when they did not honour the two games. Amakhosi have been  charged by PSL prosecutor Zola Majavu to appear before a disciplinary committee over the two matches they missed. The DC has been postponed twice to allow the arbitration to be completed.