Paper and packaging group Mondi is caught between a rock and a hard place, saying on  Friday it cannot withdraw from Russia because of legal obligations it has there. The group said in a statement to the JSE's news service that because of legal obligations to supply the power needs of about 60,000 people in one region, it cannot halt operations. But the group, which is listed in London and Johannesburg, is exploring options that could entail legally separating the business from the rest of the group. “Recognising its corporate values and broader stakeholder responsibilities, the board is assessing all options for the group’s interests in Russia, including any form of legal separation,” Mondi said. It emphasised that this does not “mean or imply” it is “planning or initiating any liquidation or bankruptcy proceedings in relation to any of its Russian subsidiaries or assets”. The Russian business generates 12% of group revenue and contributed about 20% of its earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation over the past three years. Prosus, a subsidiary of Naspers, moved swiftly this week to allay investors' concerns about its businesses in Russia and Ukraine, assuring the market that it will be able to weather the storm thanks to its broad geographical investment spread. Western countries have imposed strong sanctions on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine, which is reducing much of the country and its infrastructure to rubble. Several multinationals, including McDonald's, Heineken, Richemont and Coca-Cola, have suspended their operations in Russia, and its banks have been banned from the SWIFT international payment system. This week Prosus, which has investments in internet-based businesses globally, said it had written off $769m (R11.6bn) of the carrying value of its 27% stake in VK, the owner and operator of Odnoklassniki and Moi Mir, two of the three largest Russian social networking sites, with 59-million monthly users. Russian missiles struck a peace center in western Ukraine near Poland as bombing of major cities intensified and Moscow warned that convoys of military aid from the West are “legitimate targets.” The Russian military continues to target sites ringed around Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, and fierce fighting has been reported. Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said Ukraine has all basic food products for coming months and banned or restricted exports of essential foods. Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said talks with Moscow show signs of becoming more substantive, and one of his top advisers said that “continuous” discussions with Russia are under way by video. Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke with his French and German counterparts after they spoke earlier with Zelenskyy. Over 2.5 million Ukrainians have fled the country, with a majority crossing over to Poland, and that could climb to 4 million within days. -Reuters Russian President Vladimir Putin has used the strategy of maskirovka, a military doctrine of deception, manipulation of facts and doing the opposite of what one says, to catch Western powers off guard with his war on Ukraine. Just days before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, he and his officials insisted none was being planned and that Russia was engaging only in “military-technical measures” and so fostering  “false-flag” events — committing aggressive acts but blaming Ukraine for them. The philosophy of maskirovka was devised by political, intelligence and military leaders in the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) and contributed significantly to USSR victories in key battles against Germany during World War 2, including the decisive Battle of Stalingrad, which turned the war unexpectedly in the USSR’s favour. An air strike was launched on a Ukrainian military base Yavoriv in the west of the country near the Polish border, the Lviv regional military administration said on Sunday. "The occupiers launched an air strike on the International Center for Peacekeeping and Security. According to preliminary data, they fired eight missiles," the administration said in a statement. The centre, less than 25 km (15 miles) from the Polish border, did not say whether it had been hit. It said it would release details later. -Reuters President Cyril Ramaphosa has called the Russian president, Vladimir Putin to discuss the latter’s  murderous invasion of Ukraine. Only, of course, he didn’t quite put it like that. “Thanking His Excellency President Vladimir Putin for taking my call today, so I could gain an understanding of the situation that was unfolding between Russia and Ukraine,” tweeted Ramaphosa on Thursday, after the call. “President Putin appreciated our balanced approach. We believe this position enables both parties to subject the conflict to mediation & negotiation. Based on our relations with the Russian Federation & as member of Brics, SA has been approached to play a mediation role.” There was a time when Ramaphosa’s negotiating skills might have been put to good use but it’s too late now. Not in Ukraine. It is hard to watch a South African president bending the knee  to a man waging war on a democratic neighbour, killing women and children, destroying cities and towns. Putin’s cruelty is boundless. His lying is infinite. As the price of wheat, maize, edible oil and fuel surge in the wake of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, JSE-listed food producers and grocery retailers face a tough balancing act. Companies cannot absorb all the sharp price hikes in essential food commodities, but if they pass on rampant price increases to consumers, they run the risk of seeing demand plummet, especially for discretionary items such as biscuits and treats, and could lose customers to rivals, analysts said this week. Casparus Treurnicht, research analyst and portfolio manager at Gryphon Asset Management, said food producers and retailers are going to “take significant strain” in the coming months, as the steep rise in commodity prices has created a “perfect storm” for them, as well as packaging groups and logistics players across the value chain. Treurnicht said smaller, more marginal food producers with weaker balance sheets will come under immense pressure, and some may fall by the wayside. NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said on Sunday that Russia might use chemical weapons following its invasion of Ukraine and that such a move would be a war crime, according to an interview in German newspaper Welt am Sonntag. "In recent days, we have heard absurd claims about chemical and biological weapons laboratories," Stoltenberg was quoted by Welt am Sonntag as saying, adding that the Kremlin was inventing false pretexts to justify what could not be justified. "Now that these false claims have been made, we must remain vigilant because it is possible that Russia itself could plan chemical weapons operations under this fabrication of lies. That would be a war crime," Stoltenberg was quoted as saying. He added that although the Ukrainian people were resisting the Russian invasion with courage, the coming days are likely to bring even greater hardship. -Reuters Ukraine's intelligence service accused Russia on Saturday of firing at a convoy that was evacuating women and children from the village of Peremoha in the Kyiv region, killing seven people including one child. The service - part of the defence ministry - initially said the convoy left the village in a "green corridor" which had previously been agreed with Russia. But in a statement released late on Saturday, the service said this was not in fact the case and the convoy had left the village independently. "This is very dangerous, because the occupying forces are ruthlessly destroying the civilian population," it said. "We urge all citizens who are in danger to follow the official information on evacuation routes and use only safe routes." The service initially said that after the purported attack, which occurred on Friday, the Russian troops forced the remainder of the column back into the village. Reuters was unable immediately to verify the report and Russia offered no immediate comment. -Reuters Cash-strapped South Africans are being warned to brace themselves for the toughest economic conditions in at least a decade as food prices spiral and the war in Ukraine threatens to push fuel prices to record highs. Together with an electricity price hike of at least 10% in July and the prospect of further interest rate increases as the rand comes under pressure, South Africans are facing a winter of discontent. The grim prognosis coincides with a new study showing South African workers are poorer than they were three years ago, with real take-home pay declining 5.8% since December 2019. Households will have to dig deeper to beat rising living costs in the face of a global shortage of vegetable oil and surging wheat prices, with Russia being the world’s biggest wheat exporter and Ukraine the fifth-biggest. As the fighting in Ukraine intensifies, few are prepared to guess how high the price of fuel at the pump in SA will go. Prices rose from R19.36 a litre in January to R19.89 in February and R21.35 at the beginning of the month. A litre of fuel cost R13.79 in January 2019, R15.84 in January 2020 and R14.69 in January 2021. It is unclear what role President Cyril Ramaphosa will play in mediating the conflict between Russia and Ukraine after an announcement from his office that SA has been approached to participate in the mediation. Presidency acting spokesperson Tyrone Seale said it is “very early in the process” to say what Pretoria’s contribution will be in attempts to bring peace to Eastern Europe. On Thursday Ramaphosa said SA has been approached to play a mediation role in the ongoing conflict after he had a telephone conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin. But senior government officials privy to the matter said no decision has been taken on how SA would get involved in peace talks. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has warned Russian forces they face a fight to the death if they try to occupy the capital Kyiv, as air raid sirens again woke residents on Sunday morning. “If they decide to carpet bomb and simply erase the history of this region ... and destroy all of us, then they will enter Kyiv. If that's their goal, let them come in, but they will have to live on this land by themselves,” Zelenskyy said on Saturday. The president, who has repeatedly appeared on social media from the capital, said some small towns no longer existed in the third week of Russian attacks, the biggest assault on a European country since World War 2. Russian shelling has trapped thousands of people in besieged cities and sent 2.5 million Ukrainians fleeing to neighbouring countries.