Russia said on Thursday a Ukrainian claim that it bombed a children's hospital in Mariupol was “fake news” because the building was a former maternity hospital that had long been taken over by troops. “That’s how fake news is born,” Dmitry Polyanskiy, Russia's first deputy permanent representative to the United Nations, said on Twitter. Polyanskiy said Russia had warned on March 7 that the hospital had been turned into a military object from which Ukrainians were firing. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy accused Russia of carrying out genocide after Ukrainian officials said Russian aircraft bombed the children's hospital on Wednesday. Foreign ministers from Russia and Ukraine will meet in Turkey on Thursday in the first high-level talks between the two countries since Moscow invaded its neighbour, with Ankara hoping they could mark a turning point in the raging conflict. Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba has tempered expectations for a ceasefire agreement or other results from the meeting with Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov, on the sidelines of a diplomacy forum in Turkey's southern province of Antalya. Russia's invasion has uprooted more than 2 million people in what the United Nations calls the fastest humanitarian crisis in Europe since World War Two. The DA has welcomed a decision by parliament to accept its request for an urgent debate on SA’s stance on the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. Party leader John Steenhuisen shared a letter from National Assembly speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula in which she confirmed the scheduling of the debate. Steenhuisen applauded his party for speaking out on the conflict. “I’m proud that [Western Cape] premier Alan Winde and other DA governments are on the right side of history in condemning Russia’s reprehensible acts,” said Steenhuisen. European companies are rushing to get solar panels installed on the roofs and open spaces around their businesses to offset their exposure to the latest surge in natural gas and power prices since Russia invaded Ukraine. Building some solar power generation is a relatively quick fix for soaring power bills, with installations taking less than a year. That means new panels could help reduce Europe’s most energy-intensive businesses from natural gas prices that have roughly tripled in the last three weeks. A young girl entertained people in a bomb shelter in Ukraine by singing the hit song ‘Let it Go’ from the Disney film ‘Frozen’. Many expected Kyiv to quickly fall in the early days of the war. But more than two weeks into the Russian invasion, Moscow's military missteps and tenacious Ukrainian resistance has kept the capitol from changing hands. As the conflict in Syria marks its 11th anniversary next week, Syrians who lost family, friends and their homes in Russian-backed offensives say news from Ukraine evokes memories of a conflict that destroyed much of their country in the last decade. Ukrainian President Zelensky spoke out against Russia’s attack on civilian institutions saying, “a strike on a maternity hospital is a final proof, a proof of genocide of Ukrainians is taking place.” CNN’s Wolf Blitzer and correspondents from across Ukraine report.