A major easing of foreign exchange controls presents SA money managers with the dilemma of whether  to move more money offshore. An amendment to prudential rules announced in last month’s budget enables pension and mutual funds to invest 45% of their assets abroad, up from 30% previously. That’s the largest adjustment yet made to the offshore limit, and gives  local investors the chance to “fundamentally” rebalance their portfolios, said Izak Odendaal, an investment strategist at Old Mutual Wealth in Cape Town. Money managers have previously jumped at opportunities to increase their offshore exposure. However, with global markets in flux as a result of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, and SA benefiting from a stable rand and  rise in commodity prices, it’s not an easy decision this time. “A lot of investment houses are grappling with how  to adjust our asset allocation,” Odendaal said. “You can think much more of SA as a regional portion of your portfolio rather than the core of your portfolio. We’re  thinking this through. We haven’t made any decisions yet.” Potential outflows Pension and savings funds oversee a total of R2.96-trillion  in the country, according to the Association of Savings and Investment SA. That means outflows could amount to R444bn if money managers push up their offshore allowance  to the new limit. It’s unlikely that amount would flow out at once, though clients have expressed interest in moving more money abroad, said Victor Mupunga, a senior research analyst at Old Mutual Wealth Private Client Securities. The question is: Where to? US stocks are historically expensive, the growth outlook in Europe is at risk due to soaring energy prices, and China’s regulatory clampdowns have weighed on emerging markets as an asset class, Odendaal said. Meanwhile, sanctions on Russia have, in effect, removed a major competitor to SA in the resources field, Odendaal said. Without Russia, investors seeking exposure to the emerging market resources sector have few other options. “This does reshape the whole emerging market investment landscape,” Odendaal said. “And within that context, SA isn’t looking so bad.” More comments from Odendaal: On the rand: On the effect of the Ukraine war: On the sell off in SA government bonds: More comments from Mupunga: More stories like this are available on bloomberg.com