Kremlin says US talk of Russia using chemical weapons a tactic to divert attention he Kremlin said on Friday that US talk of Russia possibly resorting to chemical weapons in Ukraine was a tactic to divert attention away from awkward questions for Washington. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told a conference call with reporters that the military would submit proposals to President Vladimir Putin on how Russia should strengthen its defences in response to NATO beefing up its eastern flank. There was no official position on whether Russia would rebuild Ukrainian towns and cities such as Mariupol, Peskov added. -Reuters Thousands flee city near Ukrainian international airport About 20,000 people have answered appeals to flee the Ukrainian city of Boryspil, which is near an international airport, Boryspil Mayor Volodymyr Borysenko said on national television on Friday. He urged others to evacuate, saying the large number of civilians in villages nearby made it difficult for Ukrainian troops to clear Russian forces from the area. Boryspil international airport is about 30 km (19 miles) east of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv. -Reuters Most South Africans support our stance over Russia-Ukraine conflict, says Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa says most South Africans support government’s stance on the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. He made the claims in an interview with Bloomberg Television on Thursday. According to the president, staying neutral has placed him in a stronger position to help mediate an end to the conflict. Russian ex-president says Western sanctions won't sway Kremlin It is "foolish" to believe that Western sanctions against Russian businesses could have any effect on the Moscow government, Russian ex-president and deputy head of security council Dmitry Medvedev was quoted as saying on Friday. The sanctions will only consolidate the Russian society and not cause popular discontent with the authorities, Medvedev told Russia's RIA news agency in an interview. -Reuters