Polokwane police have launched a manhunt for suspects who shot and killed University of Limpopo lecturer  Prof Mohamed Saber Tayob  while he was jogging. Police spokesperson Brig Motlalefa Mojapelo said the 51-year-old chartered accountant and associate professor was shot several times while jogging  on Munnik Avenue  in Polokwane on Sunday morning. Camera footage shows him out exercising on a road verge when a white VW Polo drove past him and then made a U-turn. “The vehicle stopped next to him and a passenger disembarked and allegedly shot the victim several times at point blank. The suspects quickly drove away from the scene,” Mojapelo said. He said the motive   was unknown. “Anyone with information that can lead to the arrest of the suspects is requested to contact Warrant Officer Joseph Malebana on 072-492-9635 or the Crime Stop number 08600-10111. Callers may opt to remain anonymous and any information will be treated with strict confidentiality.” The university's executive and the faculty of management and law said they are “devastated.” Vice-chancellor Prof Mahlo Mokgalong expressed “shock and dismay at the passing of one of the university’s rising academics and leaders”. Prof Tayob was appointed as the director of the school of accountancy at the university, effective from March 1 2020. He had joined the university in October 2009 as a senior lecturer of accounting and auditing, earning promotion to associate professor in July 2017. He was also the acting programme co-ordinator for the university’s postgraduate diploma in accountancy from the beginning of 2020. The university said: “Prof Tayob was a seasoned chartered accountant (CA) and academic, who served the School of Accountancy with distinction, making it his purpose to help it grow as a centre of excellence in all its disciplines. To this end, he worked tirelessly for the school to gain sustainable success in its core business of teaching and learning, research and community engagement.” He was instrumental in ensuring that the University of Limpopo gained accreditation by the SA Institute of Chartered Accountants (Saica) to offer the Bachelor of Accounting Science and PGDA independently in 2011 and 2017 respectively, said the university. “These milestones allowed the university to produce chartered accountants, quite a pivotal accomplishment.” WARNING: Video contains graphic content TimesLIVE