Retail sales of organic foods in Switzerland rose 17% to 3.24-billion Swiss francs ($3.54bn) in 2020, reaching a market share of about 11% as theCovid-19 pandemic boosted demand, a report by the Federal Office for Agriculture showed on Tuesday. Just over a third of people polled for the “organic barometer” said their shopping habits changed during the pandemic, with almost 5% buying more organic foods due to Covid-19, the authors of the study wrote. Fresh vegetables and potatoes were the best-selling items in the organic food category, followed by milk and dairy products as well as cereal and bakery products, according to the report. A technique for modifying virus-attacking T cells might help defend against Covid-19 in patients who must take drugs that suppress the immune system, preliminary findings suggest. Transplant patients, for example, are particularly vulnerable because of the medicines they take to prevent rejection of the new organ. German researchers have found that Covid-19 survivors' T cells, which have learnt to recognise and attack the virus, can be genetically modified to make them resistant to tacrolimus, a immunosuppressive drug that is widely used to prevent rejection after transplant. EThekwini mayor Mxolisi Kaunda told the SA Human Rights Commission that his knowledge of mitigation measures put in place by the city ahead of the July 2021 unrest was limited as he was in isolation for Covid-19 at the time. The SAHRC on Monday heard evidence from the mayor regarding the unrest and looting in parts of Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal. Kaunda was asked to detail the city’s response to the events that resulted in the destruction of properties, businesses, and a reported loss of R50bn to the economy. The White House told federal agencies late on Monday they can drop Covid-19 requirements that employees and visitors wear masks in federal buildings in much of the country, according to a document seen by Reuters. The White House-led Safer Federal Workforce Task Force said in new guidance that the mask requirement could be ended by federal facilities in counties with low or medium Covid-19 community levels, regardless of vaccination status. About 70% of US counties covering 72% of the US population are listed as having low or medium levels. Hong Kong is planning to enforce a lockdown to ensure a mandatory Covid-19 testing drive planned for this month is effective, Sing Tao Daily and other domestic media reported Tuesday, as the worst virus outbreak in the city so far continues to snowball. Testing of the financial hub’s 7.4 million people will start after March 17, Sing Tao said, citing people it didn’t identify. Officials are aiming to test the whole city three times over nine days, with a stay-at-home order in place to maximise impact, Sing Tao and other media including the South China Morning Post reported. Hong Kong’s core financial services including the operations of the stock exchange will continue during the testing period, according to the report. Officials were said to be still working out the details. You do not need to wait for an SMS reminder to get your vaccine booster shot. This is according to the health department, which urges all citizens to get their booster shots. “You can go straight to a vaccination site with your ID and vaccination card when your booster is due,” said the department. The White House told federal agencies late on Monday they can drop Covid-19 requirements that employees and visitors wear masks in federal buildings in much of the country, according to a document seen by Reuters. The White House-led Safer Federal Workforce Task Force told agencies in new guidance that in counties with low or medium COVID-19 community levels they do not need to require individuals to wear masks in that federal facility, regardless of vaccination status. The White House directed agencies to revise federal employee masking and testing rules no later than March 4. Reuters