After four years of interventions the national government is  withdrawing  from the North West, co-operative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma told  the National Council of Provinces on Wednesday. Dlamini-Zuma leads the interministerial task team  put in place by President Cyril Ramaphosa in 2018 when the national government placed five departments, including the premier's office, under administration. Other departments  were health, education, public works and roads, and  community safety and transport management. This was at the height of service delivery protests that engulfed the provincial capital  Mahikeng, with residents demanding then premier Supra Mahumapelo  be sacked, alleging wide-scale corruption and maladministration. Dlamini-Zuma said the national government would withdraw from the province on March 31. “The findings of the auditor-general confirm that the provincial government is on a positive trajectory and the [task team] believes sufficient progress has been made to warrant a phased withdrawal,” she said. “But work to embed and sustain these gains is an ongoing process that will require continued oversight and support from the legislative and executive arms of the state.” The  task team recommended to the  cabinet that the national government do a phased withdrawal from its intervention in the province. “This  has been accepted by cabinet,” she said. There was a positive trajectory in restoring governance and financial controls and this was evident in the latest audit outcomes for the provincial government. “Seven departments received unqualified audits, including the office of the premier, which retained its unqualified status for the second year.” Irregular, poorly managed and potentially corrupt contracts in the provincial government had been terminated and referred to law enforcement agencies. Dlamini-Zuma  said nine provincial  officials, including two heads of departments, have  been dismissed  after disciplinary processes. “These cases related to financial misconduct and maladministration.  Ten other  officials have been found guilty and sanctioned.  Regarding criminal investigations and prosecutions, 13 cases have been finalised,  17  are in court, two  are awaiting a decision from the National Prosecuting Authority [and] 19 cases are under investigation by the [Hawks]. “Six high-value matters have been referred to the [Asset Forfeiture Unit] for investigation and  possible asset forfeiture recoveries. Investigations are  being undertaken by the Special Investigating  Unit under six presidential proclamations.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.