Replacing your old or uncomfortable mattress can be pricey. If  you’re not ready for that unplanned expense, a great way to add comfort to your existing mattress is by investing in a  mattress topper. A good topper can help, plus it definitely helps to prevent aches and pains from sleeping in the wrong position. • Memory foam mattress topper R2,299 at woolworths.co.za Having a smart speaker in your bedroom  could be a great tool to voice-prompt sleep sounds, add a sleep meditation app or ask for the time. Plus, it doesn’t have the negative impact of a phone or screen,  which have been proven to interfere with a good night’s sleep. • Google Nest Audio Smart speaker, R4,199 at superbalist.com Investing in sustainable bedding made of natural fibres is always a good start. Not only will it improve sleep with breathability that regulates body temperature and add to your overall comfort and health, but it will also last longer. Choosing 100% cotton or linen sheets with a decent thread count might mean that you have to fork out a little more, but if you follow the care instructions and change bedding regularly it can last longer and bring you many nights of luxurious comfort. • Brae 100% cotton quilt cover in Moss Green produced in partnership with the Better Cotton Imitative R1,699, Country Road at woolworths.co.za Gone are the days when where a pillow was just a pillow — now  you can choose a pillow to accommodate your every need, whether it’s ideal firmness and contour, your favourite sleeping position,   regulating your body temperature or  relieving pain points for improved sleep. Plus, zoned dough and bamboo charcoal memory foam cut-out pillows are in — specifically designed for side-sleepers. • R1,999 by Malouf at home.co.za Keeping your room well ventilated will help prevent occasional night sweats by helping you regulate your body temperature while you sleep. Investing in something quiet and that filters and purifies the air by removing irritants like pollen and dust particles might just be worth considering. • AM11 Pure Cool Purifying Fan R8,999 Dyson at woolworths.co.za Embrace the calming power of aromatherapy during your nightly routine by adding a few drops of organic lavender, chamomile, ylang-ylang or jasmine essential oil to an aroma diffuser. This will help you unwind and improve the quality of your sleep and overall health. • Ultrasonic Glass Iridescent Diffuser, R1,299 by Aura at superbalist.com Invest in a luxurious, locally produced blanket woven in natural fibres like mohair, alpaca or wool. These blankets ensure warmth and breathability without the heaviness of more synthetic fibres. Products are  guaranteed to last you nearly  a lifetime, and you will be  supporting the local industry. • Drifter alpaca and wool blanket in Caledon colour way, R1,427 at mohairstore.co.za To help you get a better night’s rest, VitaminMe’s Sleep & Anxiety supplement offers an excellent formulation of key natural ingredients. The best part is that if you sign up to their personalised supplement solution service, you will receive a tailor-made month supply subscription to ensure that you never run out. • One-time purchase R269 or subscribe every 30 days for R228.65 at Vitaminme.co.za