IN PICTURES | Malema uses human rights day to promote Russia and denounce ANC The EFF were in Sharpeville on Human Rights Day on Monday to commemorate the Sharpeville Massacre on March 21 1960. But, for the EFF, it was a day to denounce the notion of a human rights day as they say SA human rights are violated every day. The red berets used the stage to air their differences with the governing ANC. They dedicated this year as the "year of the branch" where they aim to have  1-million EFF members in "good standing" or members who have signed up for R10 with their EFF branch by the end of December. Neutral Swiss rule out arms deliveries to Poland Swiss neutrality rules out delivering weapons to Poland, Swiss President Ignazio Cassis said on Monday during a visit to Ukraine's neighbour. "Poland's first wish is actually for arms deliveries. But that is not compatible with our neutrality. I explained that quite clearly to (Polish Prime Minister) Mateusz Morawiecki and he took note of it," Cassis told Swiss broadcaster SRF. "Then, of course, the Polish head of government expects full support for the sanctions. I told him that we have not only fully supported them so far, but have even gone further," he added. In Warsaw, Morawiecki said Switzerland must freeze the accounts of Russian oligarchs in the country and confiscate their assets. Switzerland has departed with past practice and adopted European Union sanctions designed to punish Russian for invading Ukraine. -Reuters Berlin to host donor's conference for Ukrainian refugees in Moldova Berlin will host a donor's conference for Ukrainian refugees stranded in Moldova on April 5, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said on Monday. "It is about support for Moldova which is the most fragile country in this situation," she told reporters in Brussels, adding the number of Ukrainian refugees in total was expected to mount to 8 to 10 million people over the coming weeks. -Reuters Russian court bans Facebook, Instagram after Meta found 'extremist'- TASS A Russian court on Monday banned Facebook and Instagram in the country after finding Meta Platforms Inc "extremist", TASS news agency reported. Russia has already banned Facebook for restricting access to Russian media while Instagram was blocked after Meta said it would allow social media users in Ukraine to post messages urging violence against Russian President Vladimir Putin and troops Moscow sent into Ukraine on Feb. 24. Meta did not immediately respond to a request for comment. -Reuters