For the past three weeks, amateur or professional photographers have been entering their best work from the past year for the inaugural Photo Awards, presented by Jägermeister in partnership with the Sunday Times and Sowetan. Their photos were entered in five awards categories. A panel of judges then selected five finalists in each category — and you get to decide the category winners. By voting, you also stand a chance of winning a Huawei nova Y60 smartphone (worth R3,099) and R1,000 in cash!A curated photographic exhibition will be held at FotoZA Gallery in Johannesburg, where all finalists' photographs will be displayed. The Photo Meisters will be announced at this event.“We are Meisters, we master our own destiny,” said Donné Wolk, marketing manager at Jägermeister SA. “We believe people should live their lives boldly and be masters of what they do, and master their craft — whatever that craft is. Jägermeister wants to give aspiring photographers the platform and mentorship to own their skill and master their craft.” You have to be older than 18 to vote, and you can vote only ONCE in this competition. Repeat votes will be discarded. The voting deadline is midnight on March 27. How to vote for your favourites: From the glitzy runways of high fashion to the casual chic of SA’s sidewalks and the glamour of our trendsetters, the perfect fashion shot needs to be visually arresting and creative — and we’re looking for the shot with the X-factor. Scroll through the five finalists below and make a note of your favourite for the voting form you'll find below: Be it captivating architecture or a dramatically backlit leaf, we’re looking for a single shot that captures the beautiful patterns and textures of everyday life. The key is to make the most of the core elements of a photograph: light, form and texture. Scroll through the five finalists below and make a note of your favourite for the voting form you'll find below: Capturing the character of a person in a single shot is what a good portrait photograph is all about. We’re looking for a single image that gives the viewer a deeper insight into a subject — be it a studio shot, a candid photo or a self-portrait, it should evoke, arrest and inspire. Scroll through the five finalists below and make a note of your favourite for the voting form you'll find below: It all starts when the sun goes down. We’re looking for shots that capture the element of surprise, a hint of drama and a moment of fun, showing how the world and its people transform after dark. Scroll through the five finalists below and make a note of your favourite for the voting form you'll find below: The mobile phone is the perfect tool for street photography — light, easy to use and always with you. Great street photography is all about framing, imagination and an appreciation for the human condition. We’re looking for a single shot that captures anything from an authentic nightlife moment to chance encounters of all kinds. Only mobile-phone shots were entered in this category. Scroll through the five finalists below and make a note of your favourite for the voting form you'll find below: Can't see the voting form below? Click here FASHION | Sharon Armstrong, fashion director of Sunday Times Lifestyle, S Mag and The Edit; and Nwabisa Makunga, editor of the Sowetan. DESIGN | Jamal Nxedlama, co-founder and creative director of Bubblegum Club, a cultural intelligence agency that helps brands and organisations understand and engage SA culture. PORTRAIT | Jodi Bieber, the acclaimed SA photographer and international award-winner whose work has been exhibited locally and internationally. Her photograph of Bibi Aisha from Afghanistan, which first appeared on the cover of Time magazine in 2009, went on to win the World Press Photo Premier Award in 2010. AFTER DARK | Johannesburg-born photojournalist Alon Skuy, chief photographer at the Sunday Times and the recipient of numerous local and international awards PHONE PHOTOGRAPHY: STREET LIFE | Photographer and creative director Young Stilo has made a name for himself as a highly respected image maker, content creator and fashion trendsetter. 1. General information 2. Conditions of entry 3. The judging process and the prize 4. Disqualification 5. Personal data