Don’t have time to read? Listen to the summary below, provided by the writer. The DA has proposed that undocumented foreigners in SA should be given amnesty to leave and try to re-enter the country legally or apply for visas in the country. The party’s head of policy Gwen Ngwenya put forward several proposals on migration this week. The proposals come at the height of tensions in Alexandra, Gauteng, where locals who said they were part of the Dudula Movement clashed with migrants in the area. Shops and other businesses were forced to shut  when locals allegedly searched for migrant employees and shop owners who did not have valid paperwork. The DA said its migration policy is anchored on three pillars: free movement of people, economic participation of migrants and addressing harmful myths about foreign nationals. “A critical proposal is to provide an amnesty period for all undocumented migrants. Giving them an opportunity to either return to their home and attempt to re-enter legally, without prejudice, or to apply for the relevant visa from within SA,” said Ngwenya. “Why should foreign nationals not be given amnesty when home affairs does not have their act together? Just like driver's licences, a punitive approach risks lumping the innocent along with those who had no intention of following the rules.” Ngwenya said foreign nationals were being scapegoated for SA’s unemployment crisis. She said  the proposed policy  offered practical interventions which include: “The DA will be taking additional steps over the next few months to ensure  proposals contained in our migration policy become part of the wider national debate on immigration reform,” said Ngwenya. Earlier this week, ActionSA leader Herman Mashaba cautioned South Africans against taking the law into their own hands. He said South Africans were right to be frustrated about illegal immigration but their anger was misplaced and should be directed towards the ANC. “Home affairs has failed for decades to issue documentation to people who qualify. Our borders are not protected, and points of entry have created a free-for-all, where goods and people pass into SA without regulation. Who is to blame? The ANC, not foreign nationals,” he said. Mashaba also told citizens to stop making foreigners scapegoats. “Illegal immigration cannot be resolved by taking the law into our own hands, but only through the removal of the ANC government. “Our involvement in multiparty coalitions has provided a legal platform to demonstrate how this issue is dealt with. With the MMC of public safety portfolios in  Johannesburg and Ekurhuleni, we are demonstrating  we can have a future where illegal immigration is addressed.”