Transport minister Fikile Mbalula says  the grace period to renew expired driving licence cards will not be extended beyond the end of March despite protests at driving licence testing centres (DLTCs) causing further backlogs. Some Gauteng DLTCs have been forced to close  or had their services  disrupted in the past week by driving schools protesting against changes in the online booking system. The protests are the latest crisis affecting the renewal of  licence cards after  the closure of DLTCs due to Covid-19, faulty equipment and systems and corruption where officials sold online block bookings for bribes. The backlog was worsened by the  breakdown of the only machine able to print the  cards, which is back in action after being sent overseas for repairs. Speaking at the Akacia DLTC in Pretoria on Monday, which was itself the scene of a protest while he addressed reporters, Mbalula said government has increased capacity with the Waterfall and Centurion centres and remains on track to clear the renewal backlog. He noted that as of February 25, 401,13  cards had been produced and the backlog, which only relates to those who have lodged renewal applications,  stands at 534,807. In August Mbalula extended the grace period for the renewals to March 31 due to the backlog. All learner’s licences, driving licence cards, temporary driving licences and professional driving permits that expired between March 26 2020 and August 31 2021 are deemed to be valid until the end of March. Despite calls for the deadline to be extended, Mbalula stood firm. “We are increasing our capacity, so the backlog will not be an issue. I am making a call  for people to go out and renew their cards, because we won’t extend the grace period,” Mbalula  told reporters while struggling to be heard over the group protesting outside. Last week the National Driving School Association of SA embarked on a protest after the Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) introduced new features on the online licence booking system. The process  meant that new drivers and motorists who use driving schools to secure slots quicker for a fee will no longer be able to do so as the system is stricter. Driving schools are complaining that the online system has cut them out as  middlemen and their clients are being taken away. Their protests have closed or disrupted several Gauteng DLTCs over the past week, affecting the number of people who can renew or collect their cards. Mbalula said he has engaged  driving school workers on their concerns and will report back to them, but criticised protesters who used firearms  to intimidate staff members at DLTCs. “We will engage  people who are not unruly and listen to their concerns. Everyone has a right to protest, but it should not be to the detriment of services to the people and disrupting DLTCs.” A court interdict brought by the RTMC against the protesters has failed to stop the disruptions. A number of motorists have also complained of problems with the online registration system at https://online.natis.gov.za, but Makhosini Msibi, CEO of the RTMC, says the system is functional and slots are available. “The system was upgraded so that people can book from their homes. Those who do not have access to the internet can go to a DLTC kiosk for assistance and do not necessarily have to use a  driving school to get a slot,” he said. TimesLIVE