LISTEN | Russia-Ukraine conflict: 'SA is not taking sides' The DA's petition calling for the SA government to take a stand against Russia has garnered more than 4,000 signatures. The petition comes in the wake of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and SA’s decision to abstain from voting on a UN resolution to reprimand Russia. DA shadow minister of international relations and co-operation Darren Bergman slammed the ANC government for allegedly flip-flopping on its stance multiple times since Russia's invasion of Ukraine more than 10 days ago. Bergman said the party was disappointed with the ANC for not taking a strong stance in trying to get Russia to withdraw from Ukraine. “In the face of such an overwhelming atrocity, SA cannot stand idly by while its comrade ravishes a neighbouring country. Historic loyalty does not trump declarations of war,” he said. Bergman said the government must use SA's Brics connection to ensure that Russia is held accountable in terms of the Geneva convention and international law, and that it  does not use any weaponry that violates the Lieber Code. He said the government should also hold Russia to account by not assisting in facilitating or hosting any funds, transactions or business deals that could counter the sanctions introduced by the international community to bring about an immediate withdrawal. “Unless SA does all it can to condemn the invasion and urge Russia to withdraw, it will be complicit in this needless war and have the blood of multitudes on its hands. Let’s be clear, the Russian invasion of Ukraine cannot go unchallenged. And the ANC government cannot try to maintain a neutral position. There will be no neutrality in this war,” said Bergman. In his weekly letter to the public, President Cyril Ramaphosa called for the dispute to be settled through mediation rather than the “barrel of the gun”. Ramaphosa said SA abstained from voting in the UN's resolution on the escalating conflict because the resolution did not “foreground the call for meaningful engagement”. “SA expected that the UN resolution would foremost welcome the commencement of dialogue between the parties and seek to create the conditions for these talks to succeed. “Instead, the call for peaceful resolution through political dialogue is relegated to a single sentence close to the conclusion of the final text. This does not provide the encouragement and international backing that the parties need to continue with their efforts.” Ramaphosa said calling for peaceful negotiation is aligned with values upon which the UN was founded. “We are particularly concerned that the UN Security Council was unable to discharge its responsibility to maintain peace and security. This gives impetus to the long-standing calls for the Security Council’s reform to meet the challenges of the 21st century.” He said since the outbreak of the conflict, SA's position has been to affirm this call. “There have been some who have said that in abstaining from the vote, SA has placed itself on the wrong side of history. “Yet, SA is firmly on the side of peace at a time when another war is something the world does not need, nor can it afford. The results of these hostilities will be felt globally and for many years to come,” he said. A recent poll by TimesLIVE asked readers if SA should get involved in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. More than 31,000 people voted, with most (50%) asking “with what army?” Thirty-five percent  said SA should stay out of it and “South Africans like to involve themselves in other people’s business”. Fifteen percent  said SA should get involved because the conflict “affects the whole world”.