 A  man  was  bewildered when police minister Bheki Cele  questioned him after he was arrested  for allegedly being in possession of drugs worth almost R100,000  in Durban on Thursday. The suspected drug dealer, a foreigner, was  held at Durban's Point Road police station, a precinct notorious for drugs and undocumented foreigners. “You're selling it to our kids? Our children? You're selling it to SA children?” Cele  asked the suspect. The drugs were suspected to be  cocaine, crystal meth, rock cocaine and dagga. Cele and provincial commissioner Lt-Gen Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi paid an unannounced visit to the Durban Central and Point Road police stations as part of a programme to inspect  “problem stations”. Cele said  he was concerned that both stations were not up to par with their gender-based violence (GBV) desks which were supposed to be installed at every police station in the country by the end of March. “At both stations the SAP13 [exhibit room] seems to be fine, but there is a shortage of personnel at both stations, especially at Point Road, there is no visible policing. This area  is an area of high drug and foreign national presence.” Cele said  organisations such as Operation Dudula, which saw dozens of foreigners asked to produce documentation and  come under  attack in various parts of the country,  were not illegal and police could only intervene if supporters were violent. Supporters of Operation Dudula  faced off with members of the EFF  after attacks in Johannesburg this week. Cele said  South Africans were allowed to  be involved in any association as long they were legal and not armed. “Police cannot stop you because you are marching.  The Constitutional Court  said anybody, anywhere, any time can wake up in the morning and march and police cannot do anything until it is proven there will be violence in that place. So police cannot go around stopping marches, but where the law is broken  they will get [involved].” An example of this was when  supporters of Operation Dudula  entered the homes of individuals in Johannesburg. Commenting on  Operation Dudula's planned protests in Durban on Sunday,  Mkhwanazi said they met  organisers on Thursday. “We warned them that they have a right to march and gather, but if they go into people's premises they will be breaking the law.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.