The City of Cape Town announced on Monday it has opened more vaccination sites to increase vaccination and booster shot rates and make the services more accessible to residents. The city said high levels of vaccination will ensure Cape Town functions the same way it did before Covid-19. Health authorities are calling on South Africans to come out in numbers to get vaccinated. Hong Kong reported more than 43,000 new coronavirus infections on Tuesday, a day after the launch of an online self reporting platform which lets residents register their own rapid antigen tests results. Reuters Malaysia will reopen its borders from April 1 and allow entry without quarantine for visitors vaccinated against Covid-19, Prime Minister Ismail Sabri Yaakob said on Tuesday. The Southeast Asian country will also transition to the endemic phase of Covid-19 from next month, Ismail Sabri said in a televised address. Reuters As SA experiences a significant drop in new Covid-19 infections, we should look at moving away from wearing masks and introduce a new strategy. This is according to epidemiologist and former chairperson of the Covid-19 ministerial advisory committee Prof Salim Abdool Karim, who believes the worst is over and the country is ready to lift regulations on wearing masks and remove most Covid-19 measures. Florida's top health official said the state would recommend against the Covid-19 vaccine for healthy children, breaking with guidance from the US Center for Disease Control and Prevention New York City residents sounded cautiously optimistic on the day the removal of indoor mask mandate for public schools went into effect Covid-19 can cause the brain to shrink, reduce grey matter in the regions that control emotion and memory, and damage areas that control the sense of smell, an Oxford University study has found. Health minister Joe Phaahla says the government is still aiming for a 70% vaccination target, which would allow it to further ease restrictions. At the start of the vaccine rollout, the government set a target to jab 40-million people, or 67% of the population, to reach the point where enough people are immune to the coronavirus to prevent it spreading unchecked. Moderna said it would set up a manufacturing facility in Kenya, its first in Africa, to produce messenger mRNA vaccines, including Covid-19 shots. Mexico reported 42 more confirmed fatalities from Covid-19 on Monday, bringing the total death toll in the country since the pandemic began to 319,901, according to health ministry data. The country also reported 1,684 new confirmed cases of the virus, the lowest count in a 24-hour period so far this year, according to a Reuters tally, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 5,566,669. Reuters