Spotlight is our entertainment bite-sized snapshot featuring new entertainment releases in SA, exclusive film trailers and much more. New episodes are out every Thursday on Sunday Times Lifestyle, Sowetan Entertainment and on YouTube, plus you can follow Spotlight on Facebook. In this week’s episode of Spotlight we celebrate the arrival of DC Comics’ iconic hero, The Batman, in cinemas. The new film, which is neither a sequel nor a prequel to any of the character’s previous screen incarnations, launches in theatres and on IMAX on March 4. Robert Pattinson puts his own spin on the character of Gotham City’s most notorious hero, and director Matt Reeves (The Pallbearer, Cloverfield, War of the Planet of the Apes) does a phenomenal job with his characteristically unique approach. With astonishing cinematography and a strong supporting cast, which includes Zoe Kravitz (Cat Woman), Colin Farrell (Penguin), Jeffrey Wright (James Gordon) and Paul Dano (Riddler), The Batman will leave audiences enthralled. Spotlight also features a homage reel to celebrate all the men who have donned the Batman suit over the years, as well as some newly released footage from DC Comics which lifts the veil on other beloved characters making their way to the big screen in 2022, namely Black Adam, The Flash and Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom. This week’s episode has a closer look at multitalented director Kenneth Branagh’s multiple award-winning cinema release, Belfast. It also has seven Oscar nominations. With a stellar cast including Jamie Dornan, Jude Hill, Caitriona Balfe and Judi Dench, Branagh masterfully reimagines the tumultuous civil unrest in the city of his birth in the late 1960’s. Don’t miss the sneak peek of Nicolas Cage’s tongue-in-cheek, wildly unexpected send-up comedy, The Unbearable Weight of Massive Talent, coming to cinemas later in April, as well as the latest Hollywood take on the tale of lovesick Cyrano de Bergerac, in Cyrano, releasing in cinemas next week. For full interviews, breaking news, trailers, clips and competition details, visit our Spotlight Facebook page. See you at the movies! Presenter Collette Prince is dressed by Kalea Collective. Spotlight is giving away a limited edition Police The Batman watch, valued at R3,999. To enter, visit the Spotlight South Africa Facebook page. Terms and conditions apply. Winners will be drawn randomly and notified by SMS after the competition has closed.  Entrants’ personal details will not be retained for marketing purposes. Winners have to provide proof of age (ID/driver’s licence) and cover their own travel and accommodation expenses. By entering participants agree to have their names published on TimesLIVE, SowetanLIVE and Spotlight South Africa on Facebook. Employees of Arena Holdings and their family members are not eligible to enter.