The city of Cape Town has  denied allegations that it is running a “rogue” police unit. The claims — made by GOOD party MP Brett Herron and supported by police minister Bheki Cele — came  during a parliamentary sitting on March 3, when Herron asked Cele if he would intervene in the matter involving the safety and security investigations unit (SSIU). “This unit is not part of the municipal police service, but it is gathering crime intelligence, it is engaging foreign police services, for example the US FBI. It is engaging Interpol. It is doing profiles of notorious organised criminals in the Western Cape and Cape Town,” Herron said at the time. Responding, Cele said lawyers for the national police were  in contact with the municipality to try  to resolve the issue since there are “other elements of government, either provincial or local, [that] have been constitutional delinquents in the Western Cape”. The municipality's mayoral committee member for safety and security,  JP Smith, has denied the allegations, saying the unit “operates fully within the law, and does laudable work”. “At each turn, political elements in the police and the ANC have tried to stop the city from fulfilling  its safety role and function. This ranges from obstructing our search warrant applications for gun and drug crime-linked properties to calling into question our innovative 'Rent-a-cop' partnership with city improvement districts, to frustrating our efforts to create our own reservist service, now totalling hundreds of auxiliary volunteers,” he said. According to Smith, the policing unit operates in line with the  Criminal Procedure Amendment Act (CPA) and the 2018 Peace Officer Declaration, which specifically sets out the powers and functions of municipal law enforcement. “The city’s SSIU reports to a non-politically aligned executive director of safety and security, with monthly accountability to the civilian oversight committee and, quarterly, to the portfolio committee,” said Smith. Smith suggested that Herron and Cele were playing politics in raising the issue of the unit in parliament. Herron is a former member of the DA and  served as a mayoral committee member for transport and urban planning. Smith denied that the unit was illegally gathering intelligence information, as suggested, saying that, rather, they “collate and analyse the statistics and information that follows on the daily policing done by officers”. Though certain investigative methods are exclusive to the SAPS and other intelligence agencies, municipal law enforcement is able to gather and verify facts through the use of lawful investigative methods, Smith said. “In the course of an investigation, our [SSIU] officials may use specific powers listed in the declaration, including powers to arrest and search,” he said. He added that evidence gathered in  the unit's investigations were handed to the police. Their investigations have looked into: “Cele and his fellow travellers in the ANC-GOOD alliance borrow this phrase [rogue] straight from the Zupta playbook to try to stop  Cape Town from asserting  its own policing powers,” Smith said.