Standing in front of India's Taj Mahal, tour guide Raju Usmani fears for his daughter's future. With Covid-19 decimating his income, he may have to pull her out of school just as she is catching up after nearly two years stuck at home. While experts monitor Covid-19 infections across the country, Discovery CEO Adrian Gore says his company is anticipating a possible fifth wave in the next few months. While the emergence of waves can be somewhat unpredictable due to several factors, Gore said research has show the duration from the peak of one wave to the other was about 170 days. That would put the next wave possibly at the end of next month or early May. He said the next wave would likely be less severe than previous ones, but still urged caution. The coronavirus may have killed one in every 200 South Africans. Excess deaths during the Covid-19 pandemic, seen as a more accurate way of measuring its impact than official statistics, climbed to 301,106 in the week ended March 5, according to SA Medical Research Council data released on Wednesday. That’s triple the official fatality rate. South Africans consumed more alcohol during Covid-19 lockdown than any other time and stress was to blame, University of Cape Town researchers have found. According to new research published in the International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, the country’s binge drinkers, or so-called episodic drinkers, drank more than usual irrespective of the restrictions during different phases of the lockdown. Many said they drank more because they were stressed, felt a need to relax and were bored. The survey, conducted among 800 people on Facebook from July to November 2020, found that only a few binge drinkers thought the alcohol restrictions were a good incentive to reduce their intake. The majority reported buying alcohol illegally during bans on sales. South Africa's Aspen Pharmacare strikes deal with Johnson & Johnson to package, sell and distribute the American group's Covid vaccines under the Aspenovax brand in Africa. Health minister Dr Joe Phaahla says the more people vaccinate, the sooner the government could drop some Covid-19 restrictions. Phaahla said the government was facing a challenge when it came to attracting more people to get a jab. “We want to balance on the one hand opening up society, opening up social activity, opening up business and at the same time encouraging people to vaccinate. That’s why our approach is not going to be a reckless one in terms of opening up,” he said on Wednesday.