The SA Post Office (Sapo) has suspended mail services to Russia, Ukraine and Belarus amid ongoing tensions between the countries. The suspension of services seems likely to be in response to conflict in the area. It is unclear when services will resume. Spokesperson Johan Kruger told TimesLIVE services will be accessible for customers who want to send airmail to 33 countries and surface mail to 51 countries. “Customers who send items to other countries must make sure they do not send anything that is not allowed in the mail, which includes arms, ammunition, explosives, liquids or items that could break and leak. At least 21 people were killed and 112 wounded in shelling in the eastern Ukrainian city of Kharkiv in the last 24 hours, regional governor Oleg Synegubov said on Wednesday. The authorities have said Russian missile attacks hit the centre of Ukraine's second-largest city, including residential areas and the regional administration building. Reuters This is the moment a Ukrainian journalist makes an emotional plea to UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, and NATO, for a “no fly zone” as he took questions at a press conference in Poland. #Moscow warned Kyiv residents to flee their homes and rained rockets on the city of #Kharkiv as Russian commanders intensified their bombardment of Ukrainian urban areas in a shift of tactics. Russia’s foreign minister Sergei Lavrov received an icy reception at the United Nations in Geneva, Switzerland on Tuesday. Diplomats from many countries got up and walked out of the room when he spoke. According to Euro News, this happened on two occasions. After the walk out, one diplomat told Reuters the UN needed to take a strong stance. Ukrainians continue to flee to Romania after Russia launched an all-out invasion of Ukraine  A Russian armored column bore down on Kyiv and invasion forces fired rocket barrages into Kharkiv, on the sixth day of the assault on Ukraine. Satellite images show extensive damage caused by Russian airstrikes in Ukraine, including craters at a military airbase and the aftermath of a fire at an oil terminal after being hit by missiles. “I am terrified for my family and friends in Ukraine,” says a tearful Angela Sevenster, who has all her family members stuck in the ongoing conflict. On Tuesday, alongside others, Sevenster joined the Ukrainian Association in SA in a picket outside the offices of the department of international relations and co-operation (Dirco), in both Pretoria and Cape Town, to protest against the SA government for not condemning Russia's invasion of Ukraine strongly enough. “This is the most difficult moment in the lives of all my people and I believe any normal person will stand for them because they are innocent in the decision made by [Vladimir] Putin to go to war against us,” she said. A gymnasium in the Polish border city of Przemysl is now home to some of the hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians who fled the Russian invasion and sought refuge in neighboring countries. ‘Let each of us if you're able to stand, stand and send an unmistakable signal to Ukraine and to the world,’ President Biden said, leading a standing ovation for the Ukrainian people in his #SOTU address. A Ukrainian interpreter who choked up as he translated President Volodymyr Zelenskiy's address to the European Parliament said the speech had resonated with him.