Packed with a powerful multimedia experience and full HD display, Huawei’s sleek MatePad T 10s in 64GB is now available in SA. The visuals from the 10.1 inch tablet are powered by Huawei CalriVu display enhancement technology, which ensures the finest detail comes through with colour vibrancy, working alongside a powerful dual-speaker audio system to deliver an immersive experience. Whether you use the tablet for watching movies or gaming, the Huawei MatePad is ideal. Embedded in the tablet is the Kirin 710A, a chip set, which supports powerful performance and a range of smart and family-friendly features that EMUI 10.1, Huawei’s latest software version, has to offer. The new Huawei MatePad T 10s is built for entertaining the whole family. It features a simple, yet practical design that incorporates a premium metal body, and is light enough for the children to use. The tablet uses a strong geometric design language with slim bezels surrounding the display, creating perfect symmetry on the front. The sides of the tablet are curved to fit comfortably in the hands, and its reinforced edges provide additional protection against drop damage and shock from minor impacts. The Huawei MatePad T 10s features a Full HD in-plane switching (IPS) display technology panel, which supports a resolution of 1920x1200 pixels and 70% of the National Television Standards Committee colour gamut, which is the typical value. At 10.1 inches, the 16:10 display has a high pixel density of 224 pixels per inch to ensure the detail in any image or video is presented with impeccable sharpness. The tablet’s display supports Huawei ClariVu display enhancement technology which dynamically optimises colour, brightness and saturation. The display also supports a Huawei-developed Super Resolution algorithm that scales up lower-res content for a more immersive experience. From an audio perspective, Harman Kardon amplitude speakers have been placed symmetrically on the sides of the Huawei MatePad T 10s. The speakers have been redesigned to allow for a longer stroke path than traditional audio systems in tablets, ensuring the tablet can achieve a higher audio volume with low distortion. Huawei Histen 6.1 enables the support of 9.1-channel 3D surround sound, with options for users to configure the audio experience according to their preference, as well as Bass Booster, which offers smart optimisation that enhances the bass. The Huawei MatePad T 10s comes with EMUI 10.1, Huawei’s latest software version, which adds versatility to the media-centric tablet with a range of smart features in an intuitive and responsive user interface. Huawei App Multiplier lets users make the most of the horizontal orientation with a smart split screen view. Users can also transfer photos, videos and documents more quickly with Huawei Share from their Huawei mobile phones or Huawei laptops, which supports data transfer speeds of up to 150MB  per second. The tablet also includes eye protection features, which can be enabled with the TÜV Rheinland-certified Eye Comfort mode to protect the user’s eyesight. An e-book mode, where the tablet adjusts the colours on display to offer a paper-like reading experience, is also available. In addition, a new dark mode, which has been developed from intense research, offers users a more comfortable experience when using the tablet in the dark. Designed to offer a fun experience for users of all ages, the Huawei MatePad T 10s includes Kids Corner, a virtual space that offers a safe environment for children to explore the digital world — even when unsupervised. Parental control options embedded in this feature allows parents to easily set usage limits and control the content and apps that are available for their children. Also included in the Kids’ Corner are six-layer intelligent eye protection features, including a blue light filter, posture alerts, distance alerts, brightness alerts, bumpy road alerts, and e-book mode, to add extra protection to children’s eyes. Available in Deepsea Blue, the Huawei MatePad T 10s, with 4GB RAM and 64GB storage, can now be purchased for just R4,499 from the Huawei Store (online) or Incredible Connection. The Huawei  MatePad T 10s is also available from MTN, Vodacom, Telkom and Cell C on a 24-month or 36-month contract. The tablet comes with a free flip cover valued at R699. This article was paid for by Huawei.