While heavy rains and floods continue to wreak havoc in KwaZulu-Natal, relief efforts are under way as NPOs and civilians donate essentials, including hot meals, blankets, clothes and shelter to affected residents. Torrential rain and landslides have hit the area since Sunday night, destroying homes and infrastructure and displacing thousands of people. The death toll surpassed 300 on Wednesday evening. Gift of the Givers, Meals on Wheels and the Robin Hood Foundation are among those providing relief to devastated communities. About 100 people from informal settlements around the M19 near Reservoir Hills, Durban, took to the streets, burning tyres and allegedly stoning cars in protest against being removed from a temporary shelter after their homes were destroyed in the floods. Durban metro police's senior superintendent Parbhoo Sewpersad said between 80 to 100 protesters were unhappy about being moved from a school on Thursday and "started burning the roadway" and stoning passing motorists. Media personality Somizi Mhlongo took to Instagram to share his beautiful idea to help distraught residents in KwaZulu-Natal after the recent floods which wreaked havoc in the province. Somizi said Mzansi needed to assist the government in KZN. He challenged his friends to lend a hand. “I would like to again challenge especially Durban-based musicians, the likes of DJ Tira, who are able to organise concerts, promoters like Max to come together this week and put together a benefit concert at the stadium, Moses Mabhida. And then all the artists from all over the country can volunteer to perform for free but tickets are sold at the gate at a cheaper price and all the proceed go to a relief fund,” he said. While relief and rebuilding efforts (to which you can contribute here) have started, the governing party took to social media to call for calm. “During this difficult time the ANC calls on residents to remain calm while measures are being taken to attend to the situation,” it said. It followed this message  with a call to party employees to roll up their sleeves and get to work rebuilding communities. The SA Post Office (Sapo) has announced that its office in Durban central has reopened for business after it was closed due to heavy rains. KwaZulu-Natal has been hit by heavy rains that resulted in flooding and landslides that damaged transport infrastructure, homes and businesses in some parts of the province. As a result, businesses closed down temporarily to keep their employees safe and to begin recovering from the damage they’ve suffered. Sapo on Wednesday said the waters from the floods have been mopped up. A group of residents will appear in the Umlazi magistrate's court on Thursday after they were arrested for looting. SAPS KwaZulu-Natal spokesperson Lt-Col Nqobile Gwala said residents entered two businesses in Umlazi's H and J sections and took groceries and appliances. “Police swiftly responded at both premises and arrested a total of 12 suspects. The suspects were arrested for charges of business burglary and possession of stolen property,” she said. The death toll of school pupils who died in torrential rains that caused flooding and mudslides in KwaZulu-Natal is at 17. That's according to provincial education department spokesperson Sihle Mlotshwa, who told TimesLIVE on Thursday that one teacher died and 248 schools were damaged in the devastating floods since Sunday. Several organisations and charities have created outreach programmes to assist those most affected by the floods that swept through KwaZulu-Natal this week, with food, blankets, building materials, water and clothing among the donations needed. The ANC joined calls for relief and rebuilding in KwaZulu-Natal after floods caused extensive destruction and killed hundreds of people. Torrential rain and landslides have hit the area since Sunday night, destroying homes and crucial infrastructure and displacing thousands. KwaZulu-Natal residents are on high alert after crocodiles were washed away from the Crocodile Creek Farm between Tongaat and Ballito, north of Durban, this week as floods continued to wreak havoc in the province. The eThekwini municipality announced on Wednesday evening that nine of the 12 missing crocodiles had been recaptured with three still on the loose. It said the search for the remaining ones was continuing. “Crocodiles in Tongaat River. The public is advised that 12 crocodiles had escaped into the Tongaat River. Nine of them have been captured, but three are still on the loose. The public is warned not to swim in the rivers and estuaries,” it tweeted. With the death toll, which has now surpassed 300, still mounting, and the announcement last night that the recent flooding in KZN has officially been classified as a provincial disaster, NGO Gift of the Givers chairperson and founder Dr Imtiaz Sooliman released a statement on what the foundation is doing and where it is still in need of aid. Thousands are set to make the journey from Johannesburg to Durban this Easter weekend, with the cost of the road trip steeper than it was a few years ago. The recent hike in fuel prices mean travellers, whether they own private motor vehicles or are using public transpor, will dig a bit deeper into their pockets to make it to their destinations. TimesLIVE crunched the numbers to see how much it will cost you to travel to Durban by car, bus and plane in 2022, and how that compares with five years ago. The SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) has announced intervention mechanisms to help families affected by the recent heavy rains and flooding in KwaZulu-Natal. Torrential rain led to flooding and landslides that left more than 300 people dead and saw a number of houses washed away and thousands stranded. KwaZulu-Natal spokesperson for Sassa Sandy Godlwana said the agency will help affected families to access the social relief of distress (SRD) programme which is an immediate response to a crisis for individuals, families or a community in times of disaster. The Mdlalose family suffered a devastating loss in the recent heavy rains in KwaZulu-Natal which resulted in floods, mudslides, building and bridge collapses and scores of vehicles and people being swept away. On Wednesday, Nonkululeko Mdlalose, who met President Cyril Ramaphosa when he visited the flood-ravaged area, tearfully told him 10 of her family members were killed on Monday night. “I think they were all sleeping because the incident happened at around 11pm at night,” Mdlalose said. Zimbabwe has become one of the first countries to convey condolences to SA after heavy rains that have left more than 300 people dead in KwaZulu-Natal this week. Taking to his Twitter account on Wednesday, President Emmerson Mnangagwa shared his sympathies. “Horrifying news from SA today. My deepest sympathies to all those affected by the flooding and to the great people of SA,” said Mnangagwa. As provincial authorities begin to count the cost of flooding in KwaZulu-Natal, aerial footage gives a picture of the extent of the destruction. President Cyril Ramaphosa visited Durban earlier on Wednesday and assessed the damage with provincial officials. TimesLIVE reporters Orrin Singh and Sandile Ndlovu saw the city from the seat of a helicopter on Wednesday and the visuals are shocking. Play VideoAerial footage shows wide-spread destruction from KZN floodsAerial footage shows the destruction caused by flooding in KwaZulu-Natal. The footage shows damage to a holiday resort in Umdloti, while vehicles at a Toyota factory in Prospecton are submerged in water. In Umdloti, a house appears to be hanging on by a thread as a ravine has opened up beneath it. In Prospecton, a Toyota dealership will need to assess the damage to hundreds of vehicles. The pair also visited New Germany, where houses built close to a river were washed away. Several community members have been reported missing. The death toll had risen to 259 by Wednesday evening. . KwaZulu-Natal went from floods to fires on Wednesday as the devastating impact of one of the worst downpours in its history emerged and those affected vented their frustration by burning tyres on rain-soaked roads. More than 300 people had died and the toll was expected to rise. Communities felt forsaken as residents desperately tried to cope with the death and devastation that caused roads and bridges to collapse, swept away homes and created fatal mudslides. It is a disaster of massive proportions — floods in KwaZulu-Natal in 1987 claimed more than 500 lives. More than 300 people have lost their  lives in the KwaZulu-Natal flood disaster. In a statement, the office of the MEC of co-operative governance, Sipho Hlomuka, said: “The latest reports indicate that 306 people have lost their lives as a result of the heavy rains.” The figure had on Wednesday afternoon been stated as 253. Hlomuka’s office said mop-up operations were currently under way. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.