Persistent heavy rain over large parts of KwaZulu-Natal has resulted in widespread flooding, school closures, roads collapsing and several accidents. The province has been pounded by rain since Saturday, causing damage, injuries and loss of life. Three people died in a crash near Hibberdene, on the south coast on Sunday night,  when two cars collided. KwaZulu-Natal Emergency Medical Services spokesperson Robert McKenzie said paramedics treated several patients at the scene. A main road in the holiday town of Margate had to be closed after severe damage due to  flooding. Many roads in the vicinity were waterlogged. In Amanzimtoti, south of Durban, several roads were flooded on Monday morning resulting in the closure of schools. Images shared on social media showed swamped  vehicles on  a road in the area. The N2  near the city's old airport is also flooded, with motorists  warned to drive carefully in the vicinity. Head of metro police  Steve Middleton said he received reports of flooding on the M4, both north and south, on Monday morning. There have also been reports of trucks veering off the road in and around Durban. Though snow has fallen in Lesotho, Storm Report SA told TimesLIVE: “No snow is predicted for KZN.” The provincial co-operative  governance and traditional affairs department  urged residents to delay travelling on Monday. “The latest level 5 weather warning from the  SA Weather Service indicates that  heavy rains will continue into the evening today [Monday] in  large parts of the province, especially the eastern parts. “Residents are urged to exercise  caution and, where possible, delay and suspend  activities that might leave them susceptive to incidents that might be caused by the heavy rains. “Disaster management teams continue to respond to a number of incidents, which include a wall collapse in eThekwini that led to a fatality, mudslides reported in KwaDukuza, flooding  in Ladysmith  and road damage  on the south coast. “Road diversions are being implemented where possible,” the department said. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.