Some residents of Diepsloot have welcomed the interventions of police minister Bheki Cele, saying he had delivered on  what he had promised. When visiting the  township on Wednesday, Cele promised  that the  government  would add resources to strengthen crime fighting  in the area. A member of the community policing forum (CPF), Kutlwano Moalusi, confirmed to TimesLIVE that 10 police vans were delivered on Thursday. "Those are from Cele's office. We are now waiting for the six vehicles from the province," he said. Moalusi expressed satisfaction with  the delivery, saying  it was encouraging to see that Cele was "not just  talk". "This is a step in the right direction. What we need to work towards now is sustainability. We have these resources. Now we need to make sure that they remain here and  not be gone in a week or two." Moalusi said crime in the area was out of hand, with it being common that  people are killed in robberies. "It's sad to see that we are under siege like this. It's no longer safe to be out after sunset." Another resident, Martha Mthimkhulu, said she was happy to see the  police deployed in the area and busy with patrols. "Amabarete [TRT police] take no nonsense from anyone and I know they will get rid of criminals roaming our streets," she said. "My faith is in them and I thank minister Cele for sending so may cops to our area." On the streets,  some level of normality was restored. Children were playing in the streets, taxis were busy on the roads. This was  in  stark contrast  to Wednesday, when  there was a total shutdown with some interruptions at  schools. Some  had been   unable  to go to work as residents said they wanted to deal collectively  with the crime crisis. Although the CPF was not behind the shutdown, according to Moalusi they were also concerned that crime was getting out of control. He said on Sunday they woke up to news that four people were found dead in different parts of Extension 1. The deceased were alleged to have been shot. Extension 1 is where Elvis Nyathi, a Zimbabwean national, was killed on Wednesday night, allegedly by a mob demanding to see foreigners' documentation. "Criminals always take advantage of the fact that it's dark in Extension 1. There are no street lights. They are there but have not been working for a while now, so criminals use the darkness  to their advantage," Moalusi said, adding that they had asked Gauteng premier David Makhura to urgently see to it that the lights get fixed. On Thursday afternoon a strong police presence remained in the area, with police nyalas and other vehicles patrolling the streets. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.