Green- and dark-skinned avocados are available in SA almost all year round and the good news is, whichever colour you choose, they’re all equally delicious and nutritious. The buttery, creamy green-skinned avo varieties Fuerte, Edranol, Ryan, Reed and Pinkerton are available from March until October, and the rich, nutty dark-skinned Hass, Maluma Hass and Lamb Hass from March until November. Remember that green-skinned avos remain green when ripe, while the dark-skinned avos turn purple-black when ready to eat. Even though avocados may vary in colour, shape and size, they are all a great source of nutrients and can be included as part of a healthy eating plan. Did you know that they’re high in energy, heart healthy fats, vitamin K and biotin? They’re also cholesterol- and sodium-free and are a source of fibre. Avocados can form part of a successful energy-controlled diet for weight management as the healthy monounsaturated fats found in this fruit give a feeling of fullness, which reduces the temptation to overeat or binge on less healthy foods. When it comes to getting creative in the kitchen, dark-skinned and green-skinned avos shine equally brightly, as there’s no end to their uses in snacks, light meals, starters, main meals, desserts, bakes and even sweet treats. If you’re yet to experience the versatility of avocados, try the recipe for penne with balsamic roast veggies and avocado below — you’ll be hooked. So, no matter what you’re planning for your next meal, add an avo — green-skinned or dark-skinned — for double the deliciousness. Rather than Parmesan, this scrumptious pasta dish is topped with flavoured sourdough breadcrumbs for added texture. Serves: 4 — 6 Prep time: 20 minutes Cooking time: 30 minutes Ingredients: Avocado or olive oil 600g mixed vegetables, such as peppers, baby marrow, aubergine and red onion 2 garlic cloves, crushed 30ml (2 tbsp) mixed dried herbs or Italian herb seasoning Salt and pepper, to taste 30-45ml (2-3 tbsp) Balsamic vinegar 15ml (1 tbsp) brown sugar 500g penne pasta 2 ripe avocados Flat leaf parsley, to garnish For the flavoured breadcrumbs: 100g stale sourdough bread, cubed 45ml (3 tbsp) avocado or olive oil 2 anchovy fillets, finely chopped (optional) 2 cloves garlic, crushed Pinch of chilli flakes (optional) Zest of 1 lemon Method: For more information and avo recipes, visit Avocado.co.za, like iloveavocadoSA on Facebook and follow @iloveavosSA on Instagram. This article was paid for by the SA Avocado Growers’ Association.