Designer  for the stars Quiteria Kekana has sadly passed away. News of the death of the beloved local talent hit social media on Tuesday. In a statement released by the designer’s family, Kekana is said to have succumbed to his battle against cancer. The family shared  Kekana leaves behind his  siblings and parents. Having worked in the fashion industry for  more than 12 years, the celebrated creative  amassed quite a following  during a formidable career. Here are five things to know about his greatest achievements and personal life. The  famous silky green get-up that has become synonymous with the pop diva’s head-turning looks was created by Kekana. “This dress was designed with the purpose to showcase our capabilities and is reflective of all the positive changes taking place,” he said in an interview at the time. Speaking to Top Billing,  Kekana said  the 45 piece outfit was created in  three days . Kekana was not alone in creating the sizzling look for Beyoncé. Much like the iconic Dolce &  Gabbana duo, Kekana worked with George Malelu. Their brand,  George & Quiteria, was famed for sumptuous and bold silhouettes. Kekana said  their brand stood out because  they loved taking risks. While he was famed for his design talents, Kekana was also in love with dancing. He enjoyed taking formal ballroom dance classes and  was on his fashion account busting  moves. Kekana was no amateur when it  came to design and his work has been showcased around the world. Under Quiteria & George, their Rise of the Phoenix collection featuring yellow opulent gowns turned heads in Paris. In 2020 he took his solo show to Paris which was closed by local actress Nandi Mbatha. Later that year, he was tapped by New York Fashion Week to showcase under their Ones to Watch campaign with a collection themed around celebrating African women. While chronic illnesses  are a dour business, Kekana  fell in love during this time. Not shy to share his journey as he underwent chemotherapy for multiple myeloma, Kekana  let fans and friends in on his romance with model and TV presenter Behim “Mr Juice”  Xolo. “I am tired of dating fans and groupies. Behim was very genuine because he came to me at a time when I was physically weak. I am going to chemotherapy every week. I moved back to my mom’s house in Soweto so I could fully recover, and he has been nothing but supportive during this time,” Kekana told  Sunday World. Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.