Spotlight is our entertainment bite-sized snapshot featuring new entertainment releases in SA, exclusive film trailers and much more. New episodes are out every Thursday on Sunday Times Lifestyle, Sowetan Entertainment and on YouTube, plus you can follow Spotlight on Facebook. With public holidays on the horizon and more free time for everyone, Spotlight has a closer look at some great new movies at cinemas this week. The big screen releases include action adventure The Lost City, with an A-list cast (Sandra Bullock, Brad Pitt, Daniel Radcliffe and Channing Tatum), centred around a reclusive romance novelist on a book tour. Her cover model gets swept up in a kidnapping attempt that lands them in the midst of a cutthroat jungle caper, making for a quirky, fun-filled outing for cinemagoers. Spotlight also looks in on the send-up comedy set in the fictional world of Nicolas Cage, The Unbearable Weight of Massive Talent. This uniquely fresh parody on everything Nicolas Cage portrays a cash-strapped Nicolas Cage, as Nicolas Cage, agreeing to make a paid appearance at a billionaire superfan’s birthday party. Things swiftly take a turn for the worse as drug kingpins and CIA operatives get involved. He must channel his many famous movie roles, including Face/Off, Con Air, Kick Ass, National Treasure and many more, to save the day. Also starring Pedro Pascal, this cinema release is a creative original, guaranteed to provide comic relief. A great family option this week at cinemas is Chickenhare & the Hamster of Darkness – also releasing in 3D. Follow the journey of Chickenhare who worships his father Arthur, the ruler of the Kingdom of Featherbeard.  In an attempt to prove himself a worthy heir, he finds himself facing many obstacles and challenges, ultimately understanding that diversity is strength. Spotlight also has a look at last week’s fan screenings of Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore, with feedback from SA moviegoers. We also feature an insert on romantic comedy Singleholic, now showing on DStv Box Office. For full interviews, breaking news, trailers, clips and competition details, visit our Spotlight Facebook page. See you at the movies! Presenter Collette Prince is styled and dressed by We Are Egg. Shop online. We Are Egg is a beautifully curated, experiential department store of local and international fashion, beauty, home, jewellery and food. More details on Instagram about Collette's look of the week here. To celebrate the release of The Lost City we have movie merchandise hampers to give away: To enter, visit the Spotlight South Africa Facebook page. Terms and conditions apply. Winners will be drawn randomly and notified by SMS after the competition has closed.  Entrants’ personal details will not be retained for marketing purposes. Winners have to provide proof of age (ID/driver’s licence) and cover their own travel and accommodation expenses. By entering participants agree to have their names published on TimesLIVE, SowetanLIVE and Spotlight South Africa on Facebook. Employees of Arena Holdings and their family members are not eligible to enter.