Advocate Malesela Teffo was granted R10,000 bail on Friday after his dramatic arrest  the day before in the Pretoria high court  when the Senzo Meyiwa trial had adjourned. Teffo appeared in the Hillbrow magistrate’s court for failure to appear in another court for assault and trespassing charges not related to the Meyiwa trial Bail suggested by the state was R5,000 but the court ruled  that because this was the second time he had been arrested bail should be set at R10,000. Teffo had missed two court appearances in the matter. The first was in December but  was postponed to February 10 due to him being ill with Covid-19. He said he missed the February date because the investigating officer said he would appear in the Johannesburg regional court when in fact he was to appear in the Hillbrow magistrate's court. The magistrate expressed  surprise that Teffo did not get that information from the court rather than the investigating officer, because he should be familiar with the procedure. Attorney Tshepo Thobane said Teffo would still work the Meyiwa case and  they wanted his  next appearance date to be May 27, as Teffo would be in court for the Meyiwa case on the suggested May 30 date. In a voice note sent to SAfm and played on air by Aldrin Sampear on Thursday evening, Teffo claimed his arrest was fraudulent and involved the same case number as a warrant  cancelled on December 28 and  reopened on January 27. He questioned why the authorities had only acted on the arrest now, and suggested it was a “smokescreen” by police and  NPA “honchos” who were “concerned about my presence in the case because they know it is going to bite them”. Speaking to media on Friday, Thobane said he told the court  Teffo had received threats but he would not go into  detail. Teffo again said he believed the  authorities — the NPA and SAPS — were involved in the arrest. He said his spirit was not broken and  he was  more determined than ever, but needed to take instruction on the way forward. Police ministry spokesperson Lirandzu Themba said police minister Bheki Cele had requested a full report from the national commissioner on the arrest, “including the manner in which the arrest was conducted by police”. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.