The departure of former Kaizer Chiefs coach Stuart Baxter may turn out to good for  players including crowd favourites Itumeleng Khune and Nkosingiphile Ngcobo. This season, Baxter divided opinion with his team selections as he gravitated towards players  such as Bernard Parker, Cole Alexander and Kearyn Baccus while ignoring crowd favourites and some of the younger campaigners. With Arthur Zwane and Dillon Sheppard now in charge of the team, there is a strong possibility of changes in personnel and playing style during their remaining seven league matches as they chase a second spot finish. TimesLIVE looks at six players who may benefit from Baxter’s sacking. Itumeleng Khune The Amakhosi stalwart has not played a single minute for the club in the league this season and there are continuing discussions among fans as to whether he has reached his sell by date at the age of 34. Khune dished out impressive performances during the mid-season DStv Compact Cup where he helped the Warriors  lift the trophy after wins over Amabutho and Coastal United. Nkosingiphile Ngcobo Ngcobo saw limited opportunities under Stuart Baxter, who  admitted  he didn’t know  the best position for the stylish attacking midfielder who is popular with  fans. So far this season,  22-year-old Ngcobo has only featured in  11 league matches with five from the starting line-up. Sibusiso Mabiliso Highly-rated Mabiliso arrived at Naturena to much fanfare from AmaZulu at the beginning of the season with the hope that he will make the left fullback position his own, but chances have been limited. The 23-year-old has only managed five appearances in the league with one from the substitute bench and he may benefit from  Zwane and  Sheppard. Njabulo Ngcobo He arrived from Swallows as the best defender in the league and with genuine hope that he will take his game to another level, but he is yet to cement his place in the heart of the defence. Though between October and November he played seven successive league matches, the 27-year-old has largely been a bit part player with only  12 appearances. Happy Mashiane Mashiane is one of the players on the fringes at Naturena under  Baxter, but he will be hopeful for more opportunities under  Zwane and  Sheppard. The 24-year-old made only four appearances this season and  will be yearning for more game time during their remaining seven matches. Dumisani Zuma He hasn’t played this season in the league, but that is due to his off the field problems that led to the club sending him to attend a rehabilitation programme after he was allegedly caught driving under the influence of alcohol. It is unlikely that he will get a chance this season, but there is hope that he will be back next season. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.