At least 45 people have lost their lives during devastating rains that have battered KwaZulu-Natal, leaving destruction in their wake since Sunday. In a statement on Tuesday, co-operative governance and traditional affair MEC Sipho Hlomuka said the latest reports indicate more than 45 people have lost their lives as a result of the heavy rains. This number looks set to rise as more incidents are reported. As heavy rains wreak havoc in parts of KwaZulu-Natal, scenes of collapsed roads, sinkholes, flooded homes and washed-away infrastructure stream onto social media. Weather SA forecaster Wayne Venter explained it is normal to see a cut-off low (COL) pressure system at this time of the year. A COL is a system that develops south of SA, and usually lasts up to six days. It moves slowly over a region, leading to heavy rainfall in confined areas. However, Venter points out that the amount of rainfall associated with this particular system has led to a record amount of rainfall over the past 24 hours over KZN. Chemical company UPL South Africa says it is taking measures after an overflow due to the heavy rain from its control dam where polluted water from the toxic spill during last year's unrest is contained. The company's warehouse in Cornubia, north of Durban, was set alight during the unrest in July last year resulting in the chemical disaster. “UPL repurposed an existing storm water control dam below the facility into a pollution control dam (PCD). UPL appointed independent specialists who have been carefully managing the levels of polluted water in the PCD,” said UPL spokesperson Japhet Ncube. Electricity, water, burials and healthcare services affected by Durban floods The supply of electricity and water, burials, healthcare services and refusal removal has been affected by the severe flooding throughout Durban. eThekwini municipality said on Tuesday the city had suffered an unprecedented amount of damage to infrastructure though landslides, flooding and washaways overnight. "The city’s emergency personnel have been responding to calls throughout the night and have been working around the clock to restore services as soon as possible. The city calls on the public to be patient and understanding as there will be delays in restoring services," said municipal spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela. Food, blankets, plastic, clean water and clothes — here’s how you can help relief efforts in KZN As heavy rains and floods continue to wreak havoc in large parts of KwaZulu-Natal, several humanitarian organisations have announced relief efforts to aid affected communities in the region. Here’s how you can join relief efforts or donate to help those in need. KZN residents and emergency staff report from the ground during the catastrophic floods which have left the province reeling. Bridges and roads have been destroyed while water rushes through some streets. The province has asked for assistance from the SA National Defence Force. Search and rescue and emergency workers combed through rubble at two houses in Springfield, Durban, which collapsed after heavy downpours in the early hours of Tuesday morning, claiming three lives and entrapping others. SAPS search and rescue, firefighters and paramedics, with the help of neighbours, sifted through mountains of rubble in Lotus Road, Springfield, which was devastated by mudslides. Scores of neighbours lined the streets and looked on in disbelief as the teams worked furiously in wet conditions to find entrapped family members. A rescue mission is in progress at Sapref, a major crude oil refinery south of Durban, where workers were airlifted from the flooded plant. A worker made an urgent plea for help on the Facebook page Wentworth (South Africa) Represent!, saying: “We need help at Sapref. Phone someone please. We really need to get out. Please help us.” Images show large parts of the refinery plant submerged. Some people posted that they were seeking refuge on the roof while they waited to be airlifted to safety. Dozens of skeletal remains surfaced following a mudslide which uprooted graves at Ntuzuma Cemetery, north of Durban, washing bones into the street. A portion of the cemetery fence collapsed when torrential rains swept across the province, causing major flooding and damage to infrastructure since Saturday. According to an official from the cemetery, who is not authorised to speak to the media, dozens of graves from the 1970s were uprooted due to the mudslide, which affected only a portion of the graveyard. The “iconic” traffic circle in the seaside town Umdloti, north of Durban, was washed away by heavy rain on Monday night. The traffic circle is a landmark in the popular holiday town. Umdloti Smart Village convener Brian Gibson told TimesLIVE on Tuesday only half the road remained. eThekwini mayor Mxolisi Kaunda is briefing the media on the latest developments regarding the KZN floods. Kaunda is expected to visit areas affected by flooding and heavy rains in the KwaZulu-Natal municipality. Images of collapsed roads, sinkholes and washed-away bridges have flooded social media platforms after torrential rains in KwaZulu-Natal since Monday night. On Tuesday morning IPSS Medical Rescue said the Umhlali N2 north bridge had moved about 50cm, dropped about 10cm on the north end and moved 20cm on the south end. On the other side of the province, there were reports the R102 near the GJ Crookes Hospital had caved in, almost swallowing a taxi and a car. As heavy rains wreak havoc in parts of KwaZulu-Natal, hundreds have taken to social media to convey messages of support and offer safety tips for affected families and communities in the province. The rain has resulted in school closures, damage to infrastructure, car accidents and deaths. Netcare spokesperson Shawn Herbst said in a statement that emergency services personnel responded to a collision on the N2 just before Hibberdene on the south coast which had left three people dead. A road tanker was spotted floating in the Indian Ocean on Tuesday morning while heavy rain continued to batter KwaZulu-Natal, leaving death and destruction in its wake. Social media users were astounded when footage of a tanker floating in the ocean was shared on platforms. In one video a man could be heard saying: “It’s going to do a surf launch.” A woman and her three grandchildren were swept away by raging waters when she attempted to drive across a low-lying bridge near a swollen river in Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal on Monday night. According to the Community Emergency Response Team (CERT), a team of volunteer first responders, the strong current pulled the vehicle into the river. Emergency services and the volunteers spent hours trying to find the vehicle. Durban father and son Colin and Joshua Simpkins found an opportunity to canoe in a massive pool of water when heavy rain hit their suburb on Monday. The pair headed to flooded Virginia Circle in Durban North, where they paddled to the delight of passers-by. “We live less than 100m from the circle. We are both canoeists. My son arrived home from school and told me the centre of the circle was full of water. We grabbed our canoes and walked over for some fun,” Simpkins told TimesLIVE. Animals trapped in flooded kennels had to be rescued by SPCA staff in Springfield, Durban during the early hours of Tuesday morning. The SPCA Durban said the Springfield branch experienced severe flooding from an overflow of the nearby Umgeni River. This resulted in rescues being performed by emergency staff at 2am today. Shipping containers were floating on the flooded N2 highway near Durban’s old airport on Tuesday morning. Councillor Andre Beetge said both lanes of the N2 were flooded after the canal burst its banks, and shipping containers could be seen floating in the high water. The army has been called in to provide support to disaster management teams in KwaZulu-Natal who have been working since Monday to help residents affected by torrential rains. On Tuesday MEC for co-operative governance and traditional affairs Sipho Hlomuka said inclement weather which has wreaked havoc in the province since Monday was expected to continue on Tuesday. Paramedics are at the scene where a house collapsed in Bonela in  Cato Manor in Durban and in which a mother and her two daughters are reported to be trapped under rubble. ALS Paramedics spokesperson Garrith Jamieson said a sand bank collapsed at the rear of the house, causing the structural collapse. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.