Russian troops retreated from Kyiv and the nearby town of Bucha in early April, and new horrors of their occupation were revealed. Ukrainian forces found the bodies of at least 410 civilians — among them people who were killed with their hands and feet tied behind their backs and shot in the head. Reportedly there were bodies of women who had been raped and burned, and bodies of children who were also not spared. In response, President Joe Biden said Russian President Vladimir Putin should face war crimes charges over the reported mass murder. He called Putin “a war criminal,” but stopped short of calling the Bucha massacre genocide. President Volodymyr Zelensky will address the United Nations Security Council on Tuesday, while a call between top diplomats from Ukraine and China could pave the way for his first talks with President Xi Jinping since Russia’s invasion more than a month ago. The US said it might impose further sanctions this week on Moscow, as the world’s attention focused on allegations that Russian troops executed civilians in Bucha and other towns. Russia denies its forces killed civilians. Russia's top lawmaker said on Tuesday that civilian killings in the Ukrainian town of Bucha were part of a deceitful attempt by the West to discredit Russia. “The situation in Bucha is a provocation aimed at discrediting Russia,” Vyacheslav Volodin, the speaker of Russia's lower house of parliament, the Duma, said. JPMorgan could lose about $1 billion on its Russia exposure, Chief Executive Jamie Dimon said, detailing the extent of the bank's potential losses from the conflict in Ukraine for the first time. Spanish police impounded a superyacht belonging to Russian oligarch Viktor Vekselberg on behalf of U.S. authorities, the first time the United States has seized property belonging to a Russian oligarch since its invasion of Ukraine. WARNING: GRAPHIC CONTENT - President Biden accused Russian President Putin of war crimes and called for a trial, adding to the global outcry over civilian killings in the Ukrainian town of Bucha as more graphic images of their deaths emerged.