Health minister  Joe Phaahla says SA has over the past few days seen worrying trends in the rise  in Covid-19 infections. However, he hopes the next wave of infections will not be as disruptive as previous waves. Phaahla was speaking on Friday at  parliament’s portfolio committee on health ahead of the national health department revealing its spending plans for the 2022/23 financial year. “Over the past few days we have seen worrying signs of  a rise in the level of Covid-19  infections. We hope  this will not go higher.  We are monitoring the situation and  will  report back to the committee and  public once we have seen the trend. We need to give it a little  more time to see how it is going to behave.” On Thursday the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD)  reported 4,406 new Covid-19 infections, bringing the overall number of laboratory-confirmed cases to 3,750,830. This rise reflected a 15.8% increase in the positivity rate. “We hope that even if there is a rise as we go into  wintert it will not be disruptive enough to divert us from our programmes,” Phaahla said. He said department’s programmes over the past two years  were dominated by efforts to contain the coronavirus, including vaccination rollouts which required a lot of energy and financial resources. Phaahla said going into the 2022/23 financial year he hoped the pandemic will be better contained. “We are hopeful as we present this annual performance plan that the 2022/23 financial year will be different from past financial years. “We hope  there will be more stability in that the pandemic will be better contained. There is hope from the experience of the last quarter of the last financial year,  with the advent of the Omicron.  variant,  which even though it is highly transmissible  has shown  less severity, partly because of high levels of immunity through vaccination and natural immunity. “We are hoping  this will continue so  this year we can focus more squarely on the department’s programmes  we are presenting today.” The department’s director-general  Sandile Buthelezi warned about  a possible outbreak of enteric diseases after the floods in KwaZulu-Natal and Eastern Cape. Buthelezi said cholera, shigella and salmonella were  common after floods, and assured MPs  the department has  mitigating plans. “What’s more important is the issue of water. How do we make sure  water is purified since there is a problem with  supply? Our teams of environmental health workers are working closely with municipalities and the department of water and sanitation to make sure  we prevent  outbreaks of  infections and diseases.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.