If you have an overwhelming amount of debt, honest communication with a debt counsellor, and moving swiftly to find solutions, will help you manage it — stress free. Old Mutual Finance CEO Jan Moganwa says asking for help as soon as possible, instead of  trying to sort things out on your own, is vital  to future financial wellness. Moganwa says the sooner a financial institution is told about a debt issue, the sooner it  can help. According to the Old Mutual Savings & Investment Monitor, 62% of South Africans are cutting back on spending, and in these difficult times, it is best to consider all the choices available. Credit is a valuable tool that can be used to build a future and meet family’s needs. Like all valuable services, if it is not looked after and controlled, it can cause problems. If things do go wrong, the best thing anyone can do is talk to their credit provider, and if they can help, they will, says Moganwa. One of the best ways of getting back on track is by debt consolidation. “What many people don’t know is that debt consolidation makes debts controllable and can also save you money,” says Moganwa. This is because: “Debt review is another option available to over-indebted customers if debt consolidation is not a practical option. If you are seriously deep in debt and have been missing payments for some time already, your credit score might already be too low to qualify you for a debt consolidation loan. In this case, debt counselling may be your next best option,” says Moganwa. “Debt review is a process whereby a debt counsellor assesses your outstanding debt and puts in place a restructured debt repayment plan working with you. The debt counsellor may go as far as renegotiating interest rates and repayment terms with your credit providers  to have some breathing space to tackle debts. Debt review is, however, a regulated process with pros and cons best discussed with a qualified specialist.” People thinking about debt review should know that: The advantages of being under debt review are: “The aim of any of these actions is to help people regain control of their finances and pay off all their debts. It must be realised that both these events can take years to sort out. Communication and an honest approach to problems bring solutions and guard your credit rating — something that helps build a solid future and create a legacy,” says Moganwa. “As with all finances, having a budget can help avoid overspending. Budget properly, use credit well, and life can be easier and rewarding.” Old Mutual loan offerings are made available through Old Mutual Finance (RF) (Pty) Ltd, a licensed Financial Services and Registered Credit Provider NCRCP35. Ts and Cs apply. This article was paid for by Old Mutual Finance.