ANC Gauteng provincial secretary, Jacob Khawe has been granted special leave by the provincial executive committee (PEC) to afford him time to deal with allegations that he is a perpetrator of gender-based violence (GBV) against his estranged wife. The special PEC meeting further resolved  Khawe  must appear before the ANC integrity commission to state his case for dragging the party’s name in the mud in a matter, GBV, it has long stated it cannot tolerate. The PEC resolutions came  two days after the Sunday Times lifted the lid on allegations  Khawe turned her wife of less than two years, Nthabeleng, into a punch bag. Nthabeleng alleged  Khawe beat her  at least four times since the beginning of this year, leading her to kicking him out of their home and instituting divorce proceedings. The Gauteng PEC said although Nthabeleng had not opened a police case against their boss, the allegations were too “serious”  to ignore. Khawe,  when confronted at the PEC meeting on Tuesday, denied the allegations a but the PEC insisted he must be further grilled by the integrity commission. “The PEC reaffirmed the principled stance of the ANC that  GBV is a serious scourge that must be tackled decisively wherever it exists,” reads the PEC statement. “The allegations of GBV against the provincial secretary are viewed in a very serious light. They impact on the standing of the ANC in society and steps must be taken to protect the integrity of the organisation. “The PEC welcomed  that the provincial secretary is willing to cooperate with the ANC organisational processes. Accordingly, the provincial secretary requested to be granted leave and further asked to appear before the integrity committee.” Accordingly, the PEC, without any members  defending Khawe, resolved that it: Khawe will, however, not be affected by the ANC step aside rule since  a police case has not been opened against him. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.