Eleven people were killed  in the Western Cape on Friday morning when a bus and minibus collided. Road Traffic Management  Corporation spokesperson Simon Zwane said the accident happened on the N1 near Leeu-Gamka. Zwane said they have sent accident scene investigators and the recovery process is underway. “The accident happened at around 6am today and our investigators are at the scene to investigate the cause,” Zwane told TimesLIVE. In Limpopo, four people have lost their lives on the roads since the beginning of the Easter weekend. Spokesperson for the provincial department of transport and community safety  Mike Maringa said the four were killed in separate road accidents. Maringa said traffic volumes  driving into Limpopo were  high and  law enforcement officials will continue to be present  to ensure motorists comply with the rules of the road. “The N1 is  busy. We are  recording more than 1,600 vehicles per hour passing through the Granskop toll plaza,” he said. In Mpumalanga authorities  expressed disappointment with  non-compliance of  laws by motorists. Spokesperson for the provincial department of community safety and security Moeti Mmusi said they were seeing a lot of motorists  driving over the speed limits. “Our traffic police have recorded more than 9,000 excessive speeding infringements  since the beginning of the Easter weekend,” Mmusi said. He  said one person  was arrested for speeding and two  people were arrested at a roadblock for obstructing law enforcement officials from executing their duties. Moeti said Mpumalanga’s roads  are quieter but some minor backlogs were seen on the N4. He said they have recorded five fatalities since the beginning of Easter weekend. “Four people were killed and 11  injured when two minibus taxis collided   on the N17 between Leandra and Kinross at 1am on Good Friday.” He said the other fatality recorded was  a pedestrian  knocked down by a vehicle. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.