Germany must do everything in its power to help Ukraine win the war against Russia but without endangering its own security and Nato's defence capability, finance minister Christian Lindner said on Saturday. "We must do everything in our power to help Ukraine win, but the limit of the ethical responsibility is endangering our own security and endangering the defence capability of Nato territory," Lindner said in a party conference speech in Berlin "But what is possible ... must be undertaken pragmatically and quickly, together with our European partners." Lindner said he was in favour of supporting Ukraine with heavy weapons, but that Germany must not become a party to the war. "Ukraine needs military support, and in order to be victorious, it also needs heavy weapons," he added. He rejected criticism aimed at Chancellor Olaf Scholz for the government's apparent reluctance to deliver heavy battlefield weapons, such as tanks and howitzers: "Olaf Scholz is a responsible leader who weighs things up carefully and makes decisions on this basis." A day earlier, when asked about Germany's failure to deliver heavy weapons to Ukraine, Scholz said Nato must avoid a direct military confrontation with Russia that could lead to a third world war. – Reuters Russian forces have resumed air strikes on and are trying to storm the Azovstal steel works, where Ukraine's remaining forces in Mariupol are holding out, Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych said on Saturday. "The enemy is trying to strangle the final resistance of the defenders of Mariupol in the Azovstal area," Arestovych said on national television. – Reuters All the Ukrainian-controlled cities in the eastern region of Luhansk were constantly being shelled by Russian forces on Saturday and the barrage was intensifying, the region's governor Serhiy Haidai said on television. He said Ukrainian forces were leaving some settlements there in order to regroup, but that the move did not amount to a critical setback. Russia denies targeting civilian areas. — Reuters India wants to be strong friends with the “liberal world” but it needs Russia’s assistance to defend its borders, a top minister said, after criticism about refusal to outright condemn Vladimir Putin’s war on Ukraine. India is the world’s top buyer of Russian weapons, which it uses to deter aggression from neighbours Pakistan and China — two countries that have long co-operated on defence. While the US had traditionally sought to balance ties between India and Pakistan, which for years was an important partner in Afghanistan, more recently it has courted New Delhi to counter China. “You have a neighbour, who joins hands with another neighbour, both of whom are against me,” Indian finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in an interview in Washington on Friday. – Bloomberg Russia's defence ministry said on Saturday that its forces had shot down a Ukrainian Su-25 fighter jet and destroyed three MI-8 helicopters at an airfield in Ukraine's Kharkiv region. There was no immediate reaction from Ukraine regarding the Russian claims. – Reuters Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has responded after a Russian general said Moscow aims to seize control of eastern and southern Ukraine. The war on Ukraine was just the start, Zelenskyy said late on Friday. “This only confirms what I have said many times: the Russian invasion of Ukraine was intended only as a beginning, then they want to capture other countries,” Zelenskyy said in his nightly video address. – Bloomberg Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on Saturday that if all went as planned, evacuations from the besieged city of Mariupol would start at noon (9.00am GMT). "Today, we again will be trying to evacuate women, children and the elderly," Vereshchuk wrote in a social media post. – Reuters Russian forces have made no major gains in the last 24 hours despite increased activity, as Ukrainian counterattacks continue to hinder their efforts, British military intelligence said on Saturday. Despite Russia's claimed conquest of the port city of Mariupol, heavy fighting continues to frustrate Moscow's attempts to capture the city, impeding their progress in the Donbas region, the ministry of defence tweeted in a regular bulletin.Russia's air and maritime forces have not established control in either domain owing to the effectiveness of Ukraine’s air and sea defences, it said. Reuters could not immediately verify the report. – Reuters Indonesia is set to ban exports of cooking oil in the face of a local shortage, adding to shortages that have followed Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, a key supplier of sunflower oil. The BBC reported Friday that some UK supermarkets are limiting how much cooking oil customers can buy as supplies run short. – Bloomberg Analyst APK-Inform on Saturday raised its forecasts for Ukraine's 2022/23 grain crop and exports due to a better than expected winter harvest. The consultancy said in a statement that Ukraine could harvest 41.4-million tonnes of grain in 2022, including almost 17-million tonnes of wheat and 18.5-million tonnes of corn. APK-Inform said 2022/23 exports could also rise to 33.2-million tonnes versus the previous outlook of 29.9-million tonnes. –Reuters United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres plans to meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Ukraine next week, the UN announced on Friday. He was already scheduled to go to Moscow to see Putin and Russia’s foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov. On the trip, Guterres and staff members plan to discuss stepping up humanitarian assistance to Ukrainians affected by the war, the UN said. – Bloomberg TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.