Five people were killed in shelling of the city centre of Kharkiv on Sunday, and 13 were injured, the Ukrainian Suspilne public broadcaster reported citing local health authorities. "Rescuers are operating in the sites (affected by shelling)," the report said - Reuters Russia is worried about increased activity of Nato forces in the Arctic and sees risks of “unintended incidents” occurring in the region, TASS news agency cited Russian ambassador-at-large Nikolai Korchunov as saying on Sunday. In March, Finland and Sweden, which are both considering joining the US-led military Nato alliance, conducted combined Nato military drills. The exercise was long planned, but Russia's invasion of Ukraine on February 24 added intensity to the war game. Moscow describes its actions in Ukraine as a “special military operation”. “The recent increase in Nato's activity in the Arctic is a cause for concern. Another large-scale military exercise of the alliance was recently held in northern Norway. In our view, this does not contribute to the security of the region,” Korchunov said. According to Korchunov, such activity raises the risk of “unintended incidents”, which, in addition to security risks, can also cause serious damage to the Arctic ecosystem. Tears well up in Ukrainian ambassador to SA Liubov Abravitova’s crystal blue eyes when she speaks about the atrocities being committed by the Russian forces in her country. But, she says, she cannot show any signs of weakness as millions of her fellow countrymen are pinning their hopes on her to convince world leaders to condemn the Russian invasion and provide support to her war-torn country. “You have to keep it moving. You cannot show your tears to anyone. You can maybe cry when you are at home but it gives you a lot of courage to see how our people, men and women, are fighting. “Some are cooking warm food for people and making nets for the soldiers. You think to yourself, I am here, safe and my children are sleeping in a bed. Those children are sleeping in shelters on the floor. You cannot allow yourself to be weak,” said Abravitova, holding back tears. Pope Francis, marking an "Easter of war" on Sunday urged leaders to hear the people's plea for peace in Ukraine and implicitly criticised Russia for dragging the country into a "cruel and senseless" conflict. The 85-year-old pope made his comments in his twice-yearly "Urbi et Orbi" (to the city and the world) address to about 50,000 people in St. Peter's Square after a long Mass. It was the first Easter since 2019 that the public was allowed to attend following two years of Covid-19 restrictions. Francis dedicated much of the address, traditionally an overview of world conflicts, to Ukraine, comparing the shock of another war in Europe to the shock apostles who the gospel says saw the risen Jesus. "Our eyes, too, are incredulous on this Easter of war. We have seen all too much blood, all too much violence. Our hearts, too, have been filled with fear and anguish, as so many of our brothers and sisters have had to lock themselves away in order to be safe from bombing," he said. Ukraine, he said, was "sorely tried by the violence and destruction of the cruel and senseless war into which it was dragged". Moscow describes the action it launched on Feb. 24 a "special military operation". Francis has already rejected that terminology, calling it a war and previously using terms such as unjustified aggression and invasion. "Let there be a decision for peace. May there be an end to the flexing of muscles while people are suffering," Francis said on Sunday, going on to thank those who had taken in refugees from Ukraine, most of whom have gone to Poland. Earlier this month in Malta, Francis implicitly criticised Russian President Vladimir Putin over the invasion, saying a "potentate" was fomenting conflict for nationalist interests. SHOUT 'PEACE' FROM THE STREETS Francis, who suffers from leg pain, held up well during the long Mass and then toured the crowd in the square and a nearby street while sitting in an open white popemobile. Later, he read most of the "Urbi et Orbi" address from the balcony sitting down, standing only at the start and for the final blessing. On Saturday night he attended but did not preside at an Easter vigil service, apparently to rest up for Sunday, the most important day in the Christian liturgical calendar. "Please, let us not get used to war!" Francis said, looking down on the square bedecked by tens of thousands of flowers donated by the Netherlands. "Let us all commit ourselves to imploring peace, from our balconies and in our streets! May the leaders of nations hear people’s plea for peace." "I hold in my heart all the many Ukrainian victims, the millions of refugees and internally displaced persons, the divided families, the elderly left to themselves, the lives broken and the cities razed to the ground," he said. He called for reconciliation among Israelis and Palestinians ad among the people of Lebanon, Syria, Iraq, Libya, Myanmar, and the Democratic Republic of Congo, which he is due to visit in July. Reuters A village in southern Spain has been renamed Ukraine for the duration of Holy Week, in solidarity with those caught up in the conflict. Ukraine has asked G7 nations for $50 billion in financial support and is also considering issuing 0% coupon bonds to help it cover a war-linked budget deficit over the next six months, the president's economic adviser Oleh Ustenko said on Sunday. Speaking on national television, Ustenko said these options were being actively discussed. Reuters Russia gave holdout Ukrainian soldiers an ultimatum on Sunday to lay down arms in the pulverised southeastern port of Mariupol which Moscow said its forces nearly completely controlled in what would be its biggest capture of the nearly two-month war. Several hours after the 0300 GMT deadline there was no sign of compliance by Ukrainian fighters holed up in the vast Azovstal steelworks overlooking the Sea of Azov. African liberation movements of the Left, such as the ANC, Algeria’s National Liberation Front and Zimbabwe’s Zanu-PF, which have been intellectually influenced by the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, all appear to have imbibed the Soviet strategy of maskirovka, a doctrine that makes deliberate deception, dishonesty and doing the opposite of what one says a policy in itself. This is one way to explain what often appears as ANC policy somersaults, where the governing party and its leaders publicly say one thing, but either do not implement what they say or do the opposite. This is one reason for the government's indecision, implementation paralysis and state incapacity. In fact, it is at the heart of public service delivery failures. It leaves the private sector, civil society and ordinary citizens in perpetual confusion about the real intentions of the government. SA’s position on the war in Ukraine has been problematic. We first abstained at the UN General Assembly when it passed a resolution condemning Russian aggression, demanding that it withdraw troops from its neighbour’s territory. We then tried to sponsor a controversial resolution on ending the conflict without mentioning Russia as the aggressor. It was defeated before it could even make the floor. When our international relations & co-operation minister Naledi Pandor issued a statement when the invasion began in February, calling on Russia to withdraw its troops, President Cyril Ramaphosa was reported to be unhappy, causing her department to adopt a softer line. President Cyril Ramaphosa and his Ukraine counterpart, President Volodymyr Zelensky, have not spoken because diplomats from both countries are bickering about SA's handling of the Russia/Ukraine conflict. The Ukrainians are said to be unhappy that SA requested a call between the two presidents a week after Ramaphosa had a telephone conversation with Russia's President Vladimir Putin. Department of international relations and co-operation (Dirco) spokesperson Clayson Monyela told the Sunday Times that it was Ukraine's ambassador to SA Liubov Abravitova’s responsibility to facilitate the meeting after a request was made on March 11.