China reported fewer Covid-19 cases on Friday as several cities have curbed movements, while a top official warned hospitals not to turn away patients after a woman's miscarriage during a lockdown in the city of Xian sparked outrage. Wearing a mask while out in public has become part of the “new normal” we live, but could wearing a mask for hours be a danger to our health? According to the Department of Health, covering your nose and mouth for a long time with a mask won't cause carbon dioxide poisoning or lack of adequate oxygen in healthy people. “Healthcare workers routinely wear masks for prolonged periods while performing their duties,” it notes. The Omicron outbreak in Australia's most-populous state could peak by the end of January, official modelling showed on Friday, as authorities reinstated some restrictions in a bid to slow the record spike in infections. After containing the virus through lockdowns and tough border rules earlier in the pandemic, Australia is now suffering infection rates far higher than elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region. New South Wales (NSW) state Premier Dominic Perrottet postponed non-urgent surgeries and reinstated a ban on singing and dancing in clubs and pubs including in Sydney, the state capital and home to more than 5 million people. Walgreens Boots Alliance raised its full-year adjusted profit growth forecast and said it expects to administer 5 million more Covid-19 vaccines as the fast-spreading Omicron variant rages across the United States China’s delta variant-fuelled Covid-19 outbreak isn’t showing signs of easing, with cases now cropping up elsewhere in the country and technology hub Shenzhen on high alert, despite a drop-off in the latest epicentre Xi’an. Chicago Public Schools, the third-largest US education district, canceled classes for a second day on Thursday amid a walkout by teachers demanding tougher Covid-19 protection measures, although city officials insisted schools are safe. The stalemate, idling some 340,000 students, came after the teachers' union voted to reinstate virtual instruction and pushed for more rigorous safety protocols, including wider testing, citing the rapid spread of the highly infectious Omicron variant in recent weeks. While most US public school districts have reopened their campuses for the new year, education systems in some major cities, including Atlanta, Milwaukee and Detroit, have opted for online learning or delayed back-to-classroom plans due to staff shortages and Omicron concerns. The United States as a whole reported nearly 700,000 new Covid-19 infections on Wednesday, the third-highest total yet recorded, just two days after Monday's record tally of almost 1 million cases. In addition to disrupting schools, the surge has affected air travel, live entertainment and courts and other workplaces, while severely straining healthcare systems around the country. Experts say Omicron, while more highly contagious, appears less likely to cause severe illness and death than previous variants. But the sheer volume of new cases has driven Covid-19 hospitalizations sharply higher even as more medical workers are being sidelined by the illness. Reuters India reported 117,100 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, the most since early June, as the Omicron variant overtakes Delta in the cities. The health ministry also reported 302 new deaths, taking the total to 483,178. Total infections stand at 35.23 million. Reuters John Nkengasong, director of the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, has said severe lockdowns are no longer the best way to contain Covid-19