Putco Mafani's contribution to the Nkao Tempela Challenge landed him in hot water as he revealed he was suspended by Umhlobo Wenene FM for dancing on a radio desk. This follows after media Dineo Ranaka was suspended from Metro FM after dancing on  company furniture when participating in the Umlando Challenge. The former Kaizer Chiefs player  told Herald Headlines  he felt the suspension was harsh as he didn't think the equipment would be damaged. “It never occurred to me  it would be an offence warranting a suspension but it's water under the bridge. I thought it was too harsh,” he said. Subscribe for free: iono.fm | Spotify | Pocket Casts | Player.fm | Google Podcasts Putco  said his behaviour had not been out of character. “Throughout my entire life, from teaching to radio to public relations with  Kaizer Chiefs, I've always danced. I danced at  Kaizer chiefs for 60,000 people at the side of the stadium and after that I'd take trophies home. All the attention he's received has granted him an audience as he gears to launch his second book about happiness. “I believe in happiness and am always jolly. I believe in happiness as a way of life and that's what I'm advocating in my second book.” Putco expressed his regret in a lengthy Facebook post on Monday, announcing he'd be off air until  January 28 and apologised to his fans for his behaviour. Read his apology letter below: “To all my fans, family and colleagues at Umhlobo Wenene FM, I know it sounds weird but I am sorry for allowing myself to be swept by the exciting wave of the “Tempela Dance” at work, a dance which in many cases is done on a variety of surfaces and I did that in the studio on top of a desk,which was unacceptable. My actions were those of excitement and overlooked a few important safety regulations, so I have been unscheduled  until  January28  2022 due to this. Through this experience I have been exposed to many aspects of my job and its responsibilities which I might have taken lightly before. I know could have handled my excitement about that song differently. A sincere word of apology goes to the management and colleagues for letting them down while we have a number of positive and developmental issues to focus on. This is highly regrettable. I promise to continue being of value, as expected of me.” The SABC confirmed  he was unscheduled. SABC group executive for corporate affairs in marketing Gugu Ntuli said: “The SABC can confirm  it is aware of the video and that at this stage Mr Putco Mafani has been unscheduled on Umhlobo Wenene. As a matter of principle the corporation does not discuss HR matters relating to  its independent contractors in public.”