SA is likely to enter the fifth wave of Covid-19 infections in May or sooner. This is according to health minister Joe Phaahla, who warned that a new variant could see the country entering a fifth wave sooner than expected. Speaking on SABC News, Phaahla said the fifth wave could be worsened by cold weather and the flu season. “If there is no variant of serious concern very soon, we definitely would expect a wave somewhere around May, when winter starts. That’s when people start to congregate indoors because of the cold. That’s also when flu season starts,” he said. Australia will remain a divided nation, with the vast mining state of Western Australia cancelling plans to reopen its borders on February 5, citing health risks from a surge in the Omicron Covid-19 variant in eastern states. The Western Cape matric pass rate has increased by 1.3 percentage points from 2020. This emerged when basic education minister Angie Motshekga announced the matric results of the class of 2021 on Thursday. The provincial pass rate is 81.2%. Western Cape education MEC Debbie Schäfer said the Covid-19 pandemic had not dampened the pupils’ spirits. “I am absolutely delighted with the results of the matric class of 2021 in the Western Cape,” said Schäfer. The World Bank has approved a Covid-19 linked $750m (R11.4bn) development policy loan to SA to protect the poor and support economic recovery from the pandemic, a statement from the National Treasury said on Friday. The country has been hit hard by four waves of infection that killed close to 94,000 people and infected 3.5-million in Africa's worst caseload. Successive lockdowns meant to protect people have led to the closure of thousands of businesses, swelling an army of unemployed as SA's jobless rate hit records in 2021. The World Health Organisation (WHO) says living during a pandemic can be stressful and cause anxiety for some people, who might find it difficult to cope and adjust to the new normal. It says while feelings of powerlessness are common, living with them can be made easier by adopting positive lifestyle changes and coping mechanisms. The organisation says exercise is one of the vital changes to incorporate into one's daily routine. “Your body and mind are connected. Being physically active is good for your body and can help your mind feel better too. If you can go outside, try a walk, run, bike ride, or any other sport. If indoors, try dancing, stretching or any other movement you can do,” says the WHO.  Pfizer and Moderna are starting to churn out doses of Omicron-specific vaccines, and they say they could have data on whether the shots are effective as soon as March. But is this the best way to build and maintain protection against Covid-19? The world is breeding new variants so fast, it may not make sense to chase them one at a time. Global regulators don’t necessarily think it’s the right approach. The World Health Organisation and the US Food and Drug Administration say Omicron-specific vaccines might not be needed, and that public-health agencies around the world — not drug companies — should work together to decide the composition of the next vaccines.