Novak Djokovic needs to prove that he has a genuine medical exemption from Covid-19 vaccination when he lands in Australia or he will be "on the next plane home", Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Wednesday. The world No. 1 announced on Tuesday he received an exemption to play in the Grand Slam tournament in Melbourne and said he was heading to Australia. Tennis Australia and the Victorian state government said Djokovic was one of a "handful" of successful applicants among 26 people who sought exemptions from being vaccinated, but had not received any special treatment in the anonymous application process. Covid-19 infections have caused more disruption to African Cup of Nations preparations, with Senegal delaying their departure for the tournament in Cameroon and Burkina Faso set to miss players in Sunday’s opening game. Cape Verde  and Tunisia also reported new positive cases and Ivory Coast were forced to cancel a second warm-up match at their training base in Saudi Arabia. The US reported nearly 1 million new coronavirus infections on Monday, the highest daily tally of any country in the world and nearly double the previous US peak set a week ago as the spread of the highly contagious Omicron variant showed no signs of slowing. The number of hospitalised Covid-19 patients has risen nearly 50% in the last week and now exceeds 100,000, according to data collected by Reuters, marking the first time that threshold has been reached in a year. The latest surge, which forced waves of cancellations from commercial airlines flights to Broadway shows in recent weeks, was disrupting plans for public schools to welcome students back from winter vacation. In Chicago, union leaders were urging teachers in the nation's third-largest school district to stay home as classrooms were reopening. As many return to work this week, experts have cautioned people to adhere to Covid-19 health and safety protocols. The World Health Organisation (WHO) said Covid-19 can spread at the workplace and on the way to work, so it is important to be vigilant. “Covid-19 spreads primarily through respiratory droplets or contact with contaminated surfaces. Exposure can occur at the workplace, while travelling to work, during work-related travel to an area with local community transmission and on the way to and from the workplace. Australia's daily Covid-19 cases hit a record high for the third consecutive day on Wednesday, further straining hospital resources and testing facilities as public anger grows over the handling of the fast-moving Omicron outbreak. Many Australians, already unhappy about long queues at public testing centres and a shortage of at-home tests, were further incensed when news broke that tennis world number one Novak Djokovic had been given a medical exemption to enter the country. Prime Minister Scott Morrison, under pressure at the start of an election year, has sought to reassure voters that his centre-right Liberal-National Party coalition has the situation under control, while keeping tight control on the purse strings. Hanspeter Etzold, a team-builder in northern Germany is using a flock of friendly sheep to try and spread the Covid-19 vaccine message beyond their grass pastures. After being asked by a reporter if the country has ‘lost control’ of the Covid-19 pandemic, press secretary Jen Psaki refuted the claim and listed measures the Biden administration has taken to combat the recent surge. "This Omicron tsunami has changed the game yet again," New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy said, as the state reported its highest number of Covid-19 patients hospitalised since May of 2020. TimesLIVE