While it is likely that a few more deals will go through on Monday, it has been a largely quiet transfer deadline day among Premier Soccer League clubs, though Kaizer Chiefs have moved to tie down a number of their top young stars. Cape Town City are the club where the most interest may lie in the closing hours, with Fagrie Lakay on his way to Egyptian side Pyramids, according to sources in that country. But neither team has confirmed the deal and until there is a signed contract, anything  can happen. Lakay has seen a resurrection of his career at City, who picked him up  free in 2019, but his pace and improved finishing ability has won him plaudits and a Bafana Bafana call-up. “Growing up it  was always  my ambition to play overseas and that hasn’t changed,” Lakay told TimesLIVE recently. “That is one of the reasons  I came to Cape Town City, to get game time and if I do well as a player, hopefully that makes the chances of me going overseas greater. At this point  it doesn’t matter which league.” Should he complete his move, City will be left desperately short of options upfront, but there are reports they could move for an unnamed South American option to fill the void. Like many deals, that one could be part of a chain that can only be completed when Lakay is signed and sealed elsewhere. Pyramids have already announced the signing of Burkina Faso international midfielder Blati Toure, who has been a revelation at the Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. TimesLIVE has already reported that Siyethemba Sithebe will not be leaving AmaZulu for Chiefs in this window, which makes it unlikely that the Amakhosi will add to their squad on Monday. Chiefs may not be bringing anybody in during this window, but they have extended the contracts of a number of players. Nkosingiphile Ngcobo, Sabelo Radebe, Happy Mashiane, Reeve Frosler, Keletso Sifama, Bruce Bvuma and Thabo Mokoena have all prolonged their stay at Naturena. Midfielder Ngcobo and goalkeeper Bruce Bvuma have signed until June 2024, while utility player Mashiane and defender Frosler have been tied down until June 2025. Midfielder Radebe has extended his stay to June 2026. “We are happy that we were able to secure these seven players’ services for an extended period,” said sporting director Kaizer Motaung Jr  on the club’s website. “We have to ensure that our future is secured and these are the players that will form an integral part in building a formidable team in years to come. This is in line with our strategy and primary focus of reducing the average age of the squad and building a young dynamic team for the future. “There are senior players’ contracts that need to be reviewed and we are in the process of evaluating and finalising those deals. We will make further announcements in due course.” Chiefs then appeared to have a dig at AmaZulu as their statement read: “[Chiefs] did enquire about the availability of some players with a few clubs in the league during the January transfer window period, but there was general reluctance from some of those clubs to do business even though the players expressed  interest in joining Amakhosi.” Mamelodi Sundowns have signed Bolivian right-side midfielder Erwin Saavedra, who is away on national team duty with his country in the South American World Cup qualifiers. He is expected in the country next week. Ethiopian forward Abubeker Nasir has also been on trial with the team, but his capture, along with that of Saavedra, could potentially create a problem with Sundowns’ foreign quota. TimesLIVE