President Cyril Ramaphosa has come under fire for his denial that the ANC is corrupt. The president has been accused of being a “flip-flopper” and acknowledging the party's alleged corrupt ways when it is convenient. Speaking in an interview with the SABC during the ANC's January 8 celebrations, Ramaphosa said there is a perception about the ANC being a corrupt party, but this is not true. Instead, individuals have been implicated in corruption, which is damaging the party's image. “We must correct that and say 'no, it is not the ANC that is corrupt. Certain people have done certain corrupt things'. “It is all these stories that go around that there are people who participated in corruption. All that is verified through a type of Zondo report and many other reports that can confirm whether certain people have participated,” he said. The president insisted the ANC “can never be” a corrupt enterprise, as it has been branded publicly. Ramaphosa's denial comes days after acting chief justice and chairperson of the commission of inquiry into state capture Raymond Zondo released the first of his three-part state capture report in which several ANC members are implicated. They are accused of collapsing state-owned enterprises and  awarding tenders to businesses and individuals close to high-profile politicians. Former GCIS CEO Mzwanele Manyi, former president Jacob Zuma and former minister Malusi Gigaba are among those mentioned in the report. The report has been made public and Ramaphosa said there was nothing holding back law enforcement agencies from acting against reported corruption. “I am more concerned about how we are going to implement this report. We, as the ANC, called for the establishment of this commission and the ANC cannot, and will not, say this is a rubbish report. “The ANC called for this report, we are going to analyse it. We see this as an important process that has to deal with state capture that has debilitated our government,” he said. Here are some of the reactions to Ramaphosa's statements: