Russian Deputy Prime Minister Tatiana Golikova said on Tuesday that Russia had so far recorded 1,682 cases of the Omicron coronavirus variant across 42 regions, as authorities brace for a significant rise in infections. Omicron has pushed Covid-19 case figures to record highs in parts of western Europe and the United States but the variant has been slower to hit Russia, where daily Covid cases have fallen from a peak of 41,335 registered in early November. Reuters Lions and pumas at a zoo in the South African capital of Pretoria got severe Covid-19 from asymptomatic zoo handlers, raising concerns that new variants could emerge from animal reservoirs of the disease, studies carried out by a local university showed. A 2020 study of feces from two pumas that had had diarrhoea, nasal discharge and anorexia showed the animals had Covid-19 and made a full recovery after 23 days, the University of Pretoria said in a statement on Tuesday. A year later, in the midst of SA’s delta-variant-driven third wave, three lions, one of which had pneumonia, tested positive for the coronavirus. Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said on Tuesday he planned to impose a state of quasi-emergency, meaning stronger Covid-19 curbs on dining and gatherings, on 13 regions including Tokyo from Jan. 21 to February 13. He said the government had halted a programme where those vaccinated or with negative test results would be exempted from coronavirus restrictions as virus cases jumped. Reuters China's economic report card shows it lost some steam last year, held back by a property downturn and small-scale lockdowns across the country Credit Suisse Chairman Antonio Horta-Osorio has resigned following an internal probe into his personal conduct, including breaches of Covid-19 rules Doctors and nurses at this children's hospital in Augusta, Georgia, have noticed a huge spike in Omicron cases as the Covid-19 variant rages across the United States Australia suffered its deadliest day of the pandemic on Tuesday as a fast-moving Omicron outbreak continued to push up hospitalisation rates to record levels, even as daily infections eased slightly. Australia is dealing with its worst Covid-19 outbreak, fuelled by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus that has put more people in hospitals and intensive care than at any time during the pandemic. A total of 77 deaths was recorded, exceeding the previous national high of 57 last Thursday, official data showed. “Today, is a very difficult day for our state,” New South Wales (NSW) Premier Dominic Perrottet said during a media briefing as the state reported 36 deaths, a new pandemic high. US planemaker Boeing said on Tuesday that a small number of staff at its composite parts factory in the northern Chinese city of Tianjin had been affected by community level lockdowns aimed at curbing the spread of Covid-19, but the plant is "maintaining a normal level of operation". The company was responding to a query from Reuters. Reuters Swine flu (H1N1 flu), in 2009, was the virus responsible for the last global pandemic before Covid-19. The virus was first identified in Mexico and became known as swine flu because it’s similar to flu viruses that affect pigs. The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the H1N1 flu a pandemic after it caused respiratory infection in humans. From Monday, Greece intends to fine all people aged 60 and over who aren’t vaccinated against Covid-19 as a way to boost lagging inoculation levels and reduce pressure on health care. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has told seniors the simplest way to avoid the levy is to get vaccinated. “To the few of our fellow citizens over 60 who are still unvaccinated, I encourage them today: take the step,” he said on Saturday. “It’s not a matter of fine; yes the fine will be imposed, but that’s the least. Protect your life, the lives of those you love and understand that the vaccine is safe.”