A fire that ripped through  parliament  in Cape Town on Sunday has  again erupted and “engulfed the entire roof”. Parliament spokesperson Moloto Mothapo confirmed the news on Monday afternoon. "[The] fire has just re-emerged and it's now engulfing the entire roof of the National Assembly. It's inexplicable, as we thought it's been put out completely,” he said. At around 8pm, Cape Town fire and rescue spokesperson  Jermaine Carelse said  the roof was still "fully engulfed in flames". There were 60 firefighters on scene along with 10 fire appliances. "The fire was fanned by a strong southeasterly wind, an element we can't control," said Carelse. He told journalists: "I can actually say with some certainty [in] three to four hours that some normality will be restored." Carelse also confirmed that the fire had “flared up”. “The void beneath the roof sheeting of the National Assembly is on fire. There are six  firefighting appliances on the scene, as well as the hydraulic platform from Roeland Street fire station.” There were 34 firefighters busy on the scene, he said. JP Smith, the mayoral committee member for safety and security, said  the wind had become  steadily stronger, which "ignited the smouldering wood inside the roof void space, parts of which are not accessible for dousing or dampening". The strategy, he said, was to "contain  the current fire area above the fourth and fifth floor. "The fire is not contained," he added. In a statement, parliament said: "The almost two-day brave and courageous battle by firefighters against the flames that gutted various buildings of parliament suffered a set-back when flames suddenly flared up from the roof of the building this afternoon. "The resurgence of the fire follows earlier information from firefighters regarding the risky high temperature levels at the gutted buildings." The presiding officers — National Assembly speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and National Council of Provinces chair Amos Masondo — said   reinforcement firefighters had been called in. "The presiding officers continue to be encouraged by the resilience, courage and bravery of the firefighters in their battle to bring the fire under complete control," they said. TimesLIVE