The National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union (Nehawu) confirmed on Wednesday it has taken the ANC to the labour court over unpaid salaries to its employees. This comes as the ruling party continues to face financial woes which have seen it intermittently fail to pay  employees  during the past two years. Employees  are on a stayaway protest. Nehawu is in alliance with the ANC through its federation Cosatu, whose president Zingiswa Losi is also a member of the ruling party’s national executive committee (NEC). “We fully support the struggles waged by our members and staff of the  ANC in their fight for improved conditions of service,” said Nehawu general secretary Zola Saphetha. “These workers are going through a sad and traumatising period as a direct result of failures of the ANC to honour and fulfil its contractual obligations entered into, among others, for the payment of salaries on time, non-contribution/payment to the provident fund, contribution to Unemployment Insurance Fund and, at worst, no salary increment for the past three years.” He said the late payment of salaries had resulted in workers losing homes and cars which had been repossessed for failure to pay instalments. “This inhuman act by the ANC undermines the dignity of its workers, who kept the  ANC going  by sacrificing their lives in favour of the ANC. As Nehawu, we consciously took the correct decision to take the ANC to the labour court as papers were filed on  January 31 2022. “In the papers, as submitted by the union for and on behalf of its members and staff in  the ANC, we demand that the service tendered by workers must be remunerated immediately.” Saphetha said the ANC had deliberately failed and elected not to honour its contractual obligations since October 2021, and made workers go  through the December festive season without  salaries while the party continued with its birthday celebrations  on January 8. “The ANC continued to gear up to the January 2022 celebrations, cutting cakes as if all is well and sorted with its employees.” Saphetha said the union would not  watch its members and ANC employees go unpaid. In December, the ANC said it would pay its staff the three outstanding monthly salaries they were owed before Christmas. TimesLIVE