US drugmaker Johnson & Johnson is close to a vaccine licensing deal with South African group Aspen Pharmacare, a senior J&J executive told a conference in Nigeria on Wednesday. "We are at the advanced stages of a potential licensing agreement with Aspen and we are really hopeful it will be finalised," said Stacy Meyer, J&J's Vice President Global Public Health, Operations and Partnerships. She gave no further details. In November, Aspen signed non-binding terms with subsidiaries of J&J, saying this was a step towards a licensing deal for Aspen to package and sell J&J's's Covid-19 vaccine in Africa. The non-binding agreements were hailed by the World Health Organization as a "transformative moment" in the drive towards greater vaccine equity. Africa is the least vaccinated part of the world. Multiple organisations and companies are involved in initiatives to build up vaccine manufacturing capacity on the continent, to avoid a repeat of what happened at the start of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, when rich countries hoarded supplies. Reuters The health department has reduced the time between first and second doses of Pfizer vaccine from 42 days to 21 days. This week, the department said individuals who are fully vaccinated with the Pfizer vaccine, meaning they have received both doses, will now be eligible for a booster dose 90 days after the second dose instead of the current 180 days. The department said individuals older than 18 who have received one dose of the J&J vaccine are now eligible to receive a booster dose of the same vaccine or a booster dose of Pfizer vaccine after two months. A R182bn tax windfall boosted by a commodity boom has resulted in a slight improvement in public finances, giving the government room to reduce borrowing, narrow the budget deficit, extend social grants and invest in job creating projects. A buoyant National Treasury described returning public finances to a healthier position as a great milestone, but finance minister Enoch Godongwana warned in his speech the country is still a long way from a more sustainable economic recovery and that spending must still be curbed. “The improved revenue performance is not a reflection of an improvement in the capacity of our economy. As such, we cannot plan permanent expenditure on the basis of short-term increases in commodity prices. To be clear, any permanent increases in spending should be financed in a way that does worsen the fiscal deficit,” he said.