French finance minister Bruno Le Maire said on Friday that the European Union wanted to isolate Russia financially, as he spoke alongside his German counterpart Christian Lindner at a European Union finance ministers' meeting. “We are going to strike the Russian banks. We want to isolate Russia financially. We want to cut off all the links between Russia and the global financial system,” said Le Maire. Missiles pounded the Ukrainian capital on Friday as Russian forces pressed their advance and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy pleaded with the international community to do more, saying sanctions announced so far were not enough. Uefa has moved this year's Champions League final from St Petersburg to Paris in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, European soccer's governing body said on Friday. The home games of Ukrainian and Russian club and national teams competing in Uefa competitions would be played at neutral venues "until further notice". The governing body thanked French President Emmanuel Macron for his "personal support and commitment" in taking on the final. Uefa would "fully support multi-stakeholder efforts to ensure the provision of rescue for football players and their families in Ukraine who face dire human suffering, destruction and displacement". President Cyril Ramaphosa has called for mediation and engagement to end the war unfolding between Russia and Ukraine, which is threatening to lead to what some suggest will be “World War 3". Ramaphosa was addressing the Intergovernmental National Litigation Forum in Pretoria on Friday. His call comes after international relations and co-operation minister Naledi Pandor urged Russia to immediately withdraw from Ukraine. DA leader John Steenhuisen has called on President Cyril Ramaphosa to speak out against Russia’s aggression after that country’s invasion of Ukraine this week. Tensions that have been brewing for years boiled over this week when Russian President Vladimir Putin formally recognised two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine and ordered a “special military operation” to “protect” the Donbas region in the east of the country. Putin said there was a need to “demilitarise” the country, while Ukraine labelled it an “act of war” and President Volodymyr Zelensky called on those capable of bearing arms to defend the nation. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is unfolding in a nation with 15 atomic reactors operating near full capacity, exposing Europe’s second-biggest nuclear fleet to potential safety risks. Monitors at the International Atomic Energy Agency  said late on Thursday they are gravely concerned by the situation and remain in contact with Ukrainian nuclear safety regulators. Reactors require steady supplies of electricity and water, both of which could be put at risk by military action. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex, Prince Harry and Meghan, have joined growing outrage against Russia's invasion of Ukraine. President Vladimir Putin on Thursday launched an all-out invasion on neighbouring Ukraine with missile strikes on cities and pouring its troops into the country, sparking outrage from Western leaders. US President Joe Biden unveiled harsh new sanctions against Russia hours later, imposing measures to impede Russia's ability to do business in the world's major currencies, along with sanctions against banks and state-owned enterprises. Citizens have flooded social media asking “Which South Africa” the government was referring to when it demanded that Russia “immediately withdraw its forces from Ukraine”. Tensions that have been brewing for years boiled over this week when Russian president Vladimir Putin formally recognised two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine and ordered a “special military operation” in Ukraine. Putin claimed the move was to “protect” the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine and said there was a need to “demilitarise” the country. Ukraine said it was an “act of war”. Former president Jacob Zuma's daughter Duduzile Zuma-Sambudla has made her allegiance clear in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, praising Russian president Vladimir Putin and calling him “president of the world”. Ukraine said more than 100 Ukranian military and civilians were killed and there were more than 800 Russian casualties on the first day of an invasion of that country on Thursday. Tensions that have been brewing for years boiled over this week when Putin formally recognised two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine and ordered a “special military operation” in Ukraine. Putin claimed the move was to “protect” the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine and said there was a need to “demilitarise” the country. Ukraine said it was an “act of war”. Russian President Vladimir Putin’s decision to launch a “special military operation” in Ukraine on Thursday has sparked sharp reaction in SA. As the conflict made global headlines, South Africans took to social media to weigh in on any potential response from our government. Some said SA would be affected by the conflict and has a duty to get involved. Others said we have our own problems and we should not “stick our nose in other people’s business”. EFF MP Mbuyiseni Ndlozi has weighed in on the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, saying Africa must adopt a policy of non-alignment. Explosions have been heard in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv since Thursday after Russian President Vladimir Putin told Russian state TV he had authorised a military operation in eastern Ukraine. Russia launched what Western powers have called a full-scale invasion of Ukraine and targeted several cities. India, the Philippines and Thailand will likely stand to lose the most in Asia as a sustained increase in oil prices fans inflation, slows growth and weakens their currencies, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. Those impacts in Asia from Russia’s Ukraine invasion will be felt mostly through commodities, specifically fuel and food, analysts including Sonal Varma and Ting Lu wrote in a report Friday, adding that other factors outside the conflict will also keep prices sustained. More than 12-million barrels of Russian-origin crude oil and refined products are en route to the US aboard almost two dozen vessels for delivery in the next month, according to oil-analytics firm Vortexa. There were no reports of diversions as of Thursday morning, just hours after Russian military units attacked Ukrainian targets and international powers threatened to intensify sanctions. One of the numbers traders have been watching: US crude imports from Russia averaged about 106,000 barrels a day last week. Volumes have remained muted in recent weeks after averaging zero for three weeks straight in January. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said on Friday that continued Russian aggression against his country showed that sanctions imposed on Moscow by the West were not enough. Zelenskiy said the world was continuing to observe what was going on in Ukraine after its capital Kyiv and other parts of the country were struck by Russian missiles in the early hours of Friday. Addressing the Russian population in Russian at the end of a televised speech, Zelenskiy said the bombing of Kyiv was reminiscent of Nazi Germany's attacks during World War 2. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine carries huge risks for a world economy that’s yet to fully recover from the pandemic shock. The conflict already looks like the most serious war in Europe since 1945. Russian forces carried out air strikes, captured army bases and advanced towards Kyiv as civilians fled. Western officials said the capital may fall at any time, with its air defences eliminated Bloomberg Economics examines how the conflict could impact growth, inflation and monetary policy. Missiles pounded the Ukrainian capital on Friday as Russian forces pressed their advance and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy pleaded with the international community to do more, saying sanctions announced so far were not enough. Air raid sirens wailed over Kyiv amid unconfirmed reports that a Russian plane had been shot down and crashed into a building a day after Russian President Vladimir Putin launched an invasion that has shocked the world. A senior Ukrainian official said Russian forces would enter areas just outside the capital, Kyiv, later on Friday and that Ukrainian troops were defending positions on four fronts despite being outnumbered. Ukraine’s president said his nation continued to resist on the second day of the Russian invasion as the US and European Union stepped up economic penalties and fighting raged north of Kyiv. President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said Ukraine’s military had stopped Russia from achieving its objectives in the first day of the assault. As air-raid sirens screamed in cities across the country of 41 million and Ukraine reported “horrific” rocket strikes in the capital, the president said Moscow-led forces were attacking military and civilian targets to keep up the pressure. “Russia will have to talk to us sooner or later, talk about how to end the fighting and stop this invasion,” Zelenskiy, said in a morning address. “The sooner this conversation begins, the smaller the losses of Russia itself.” Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy vowed on Friday to stay put in the capital Kyiv as Russian troops launched an all-out invasion of Ukraine from several fronts. TimesLIVE