The easiest and closest thing to good ice cream, made with bananas. Makes about 500ml (2 cups) per batch. Cut into rectangles, it makes 100 x 2cm nice-cream bites. Nice cream: 4 large ripe bananas,  peeled, sliced and frozen in a plastic bag 125ml (½ cup) milk Caramel 45ml (3 tbsp) caramelised condensed milk Mint-caramel 45ml (3 tbsp) mint-flavoured caramelised condensed milk Coffee 15-30ml (2 tbsp) instant coffee granules Strawberry 30ml (2 tbsp) strawberry-flavoured milk powder Salted-caramel nice-cream bites 4 x 85g peppermint bubble milk chocolate 5ml (1 tsp) coconut oil 1 portion caramel nice cream Sea salt flakes, to garnish Peppermint crisp nice-cream bites: 4 x 85g slabs dark bubble chocolate 2.5ml (½ tsp) coconut oil 1 portion mint-caramel nice cream Crushed peppermint crisp, to garnish Iced-coffee nice-cream bites: 4 x 85g slabs bubble dark chocolate 2.5ml (½ tsp) coconut oil, optional 1 portion coffee nice cream Lightly crushed instant coffee powder, to garnish Strawberry milkshake nice-cream bites: 4 x 80g slabs Milk bars 2.5ml (½ tsp) coconut oil, optional 1 portion strawberry nice cream 250ml (1 cup) puffed rice cereal, to garnish Strawberry-flavour milk powder, to garnish Method: Makes about 24 squares Ingredients: 1  x 385g can full-cream condensed milk 120g (250ml) self-raising flour 60ml (¼ cup) cocoa powder To serve: Fresh berries, optional Method: Using just three ingredients, chocolate (lots of it), eggs and cream are all you need to make a show-stopping cake. Serves 8 Cake: 2¾ x 85g  slabs milk chocolate, broken into chunks 4 large eggs, room temperature, separated Chocolate mousse topping: 2  x 85g slabs milk chocolate, broken into chunks 250ml (1 cup) cream To serve: Chocolate flakes Fresh berries Tip: To ensure the cake bakes evenly: Cut a piece of foil to wrap around the tin, with 3cm to spare. Tear a strip of paper towel the same length. Dip it in water, squeeze and fold to form a strip. Lay this along the edge of the foil. Fold the foil over the damp paper, and wrap this around the outside the cake tin. by Jean Wishaw, Kelsey Dobie and Cassidy Nydahl This is a collection of fun and easy recipes in one book,  all about taking the easy route to cooking success and featuring many clever tips and hacks. Offering accessible recipes that  guarantee success means the whole family can be involved. The beauty of Foodies is that each recipe has a handy QR code linked to a recipe video — simply click through and follow the fun and proudly local ideas which have made Foodies of SA such a big hit. Not only will the cookbook elevate your cooking skills, but 100% of the royalties go to the Bokamoso Education Trust, whose vision is to provide financial support for education to underprivileged South African youth. See bokamoso.org.za • Priced at R390, published by Quivertree.