With folded hands that cover the coins in her lap, Phumzile Mlangeni, 51, sits outside CelltronicXpress, an electronics-cum-jewellery store in Jorissen Street, Braamfontein. On the pavement to her left is a large box of assorted fruit: bananas, peaches, nectarines and grapes. To her right is a box of multicoloured popcorn in small packets that she packaged the week before. She sells them for R3 each. Mlangeni is one of the many street sellers in Gauteng who rely on the small income that such trading provides. The informal sector in SA accounts for 18.9% of total employment, providing jobs to about 2.7-million people. Originally from Bergville, KwaZulu-Natal, Mlangeni has been selling here since 1999 to support herself and her family. But the money she makes is not enough to cover all her expenses these days. The Federated Hospitality Association of Southern Africa (Fedhasa) on Tuesday urged government to remove the compulsory PCR test required for inbound international and returning South African travellers who are fully vaccinated. This comes as the government announced major adjustments to Covid-19 regulations on Monday night, including that those who test positive with no symptoms do not have to isolate and schools returning to daily attendance. These were welcomed by the body. “The PCR test requirement is a deterrent to international travel and consequently the recovery of our tourism and hospitality sector,” said Fedhasa national chair Rosemary Anderson. Australia's prime minister faced up to criticism of his leadership on Tuesday, saying his government had been too optimistic about the impact of coronavirus vaccinations leading to disappointment and exhaustion when the Omicron variant hit. Scott Morrison faces an approval rating falling to its lowest level in two years with an election due in four months and public confidence battered by widespread shortages of rapid antigen tests as Omicron cases surged past 1 million over the summer. In an address to the National Press Club in Canberra, Morrison said he would take the criticism that came with the leader's job. “I haven't got everything right,” he said. South Africans took to social media on Monday evening to weigh in on the government announcing several changes to the rules governing Covid-19 isolation and schooling during the pandemic. The presidency said SA is officially out of the fourth wave of infections and announced five major adjustments to regulations. Vaccinations against Covid-19 slowly gain pace in Nigeria after the government destroyed more than a million expired doses last month and assured citizens that it will no longer accept vaccines close to expiry. The New Zealand Open golf championship has been cancelled for the second year running, due to ongoing travel restrictions to protect the country from the pandemic, the organisers said on Tuesday. New Zealand's borders have been shut to foreigners since March 2020. The government pushed back plans for a phased reopening from mid-January to the end of February out of concern about a potential Omicron outbreak, as in neighbouring Australia. "We have done everything within our power to make this event happen," tournament chairman John Hart said on the event's website." However, with the current government restrictions in place, running an event that includes 250 players, 250 caddies, 500 volunteers, nearly 100 tournament staff and officials, plus numerous contractors, as well (as) spectators, is just not possible. "The organisers had announced in December that the championship, part of the PGA Tour Australasia, would go ahead. It had been scheduled to take place from March 31-April 3 at the Millbrook Resort near Queenstown on the country's South Island. The three leading players would have won direct entry into the prestigious 150th Open Championship at St Andrews. As of Sunday, New Zealand, had reported 15,910 confirmed cases of Covid-19 and 52 deaths since the pandemic first struck. Reuters Paris 2024 chief Tony Estanguet will not attend the Beijing Olympics after testing positive for Covid-19, the French organising committee said. Estanguet was due to fly to the Chinese capital to observe the first part of the Games but will now stay in France, with Etienne Thobois, the Paris 2024 chief executive, expecting to make the trip. Estanguet was at the start of last year's Tokyo Olympics after also attending part of the 2018 Winter Games in Pyeongchang. French Sports Minister Roxana Maracineanu will also fly to Beijing during the Games to visit French athletes. Reuters Pregnant women with Covid-19 may experience preterm birth and be more likely to suffer severe illness from the virus than non-pregnant women. This is according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). It recommends Covid-19 vaccines be taken by everyone aged five years and older, including women who are pregnant, breastfeeding, trying to get pregnant, or who may become pregnant in the future. The National Hockey League and its players association on Monday issued revisions to its Covid-19 protocols that included the removal of daily testing for fully vaccinated players in light of the declining rate of positive cases. More than 100 games were postponed this season because of issues related to Covid and the league was hit particularly hard from mid-December to mid-January amid the spread of the highly contagious Omicron variant. But the situation has improved since then and in response, the league said it would implement the changes to allow vaccinated players and club personnel to return to "a more normal and less regulated approach" from a Covid perspective. The league said there has been a high adoption rate of vaccines among players and teams and urged team members to receive a booster shot. The changes will come into effect for each club following their last game before the Feb. 5 All-Star game. Reuters As in hospitals across the country, Omicron hit Providence Mission Hospital in Orange County, California, hard with record numbers of patients. The staff, depleted by sickness and resignations, have taken a beating. Popular US podcaster Joe Rogan has apologised amid a backlash against Covid-19 misinformation in his programme, while his platform, Spotify, said it would add a “content advisory” to any episode that discusses Covid. Rogan, a prominent vaccine sceptic, has stirred controversy with his views on the pandemic, vaccines and government mandates to control the spread of the virus. Singer-songwriters Neil Young and Joni Mitchell announced last week that they were removing their music from Spotify in protest of coronavirus misinformation broadcast on the platform. Young objected to his music being played on the same platform as the top-rated podcast, The Joe Rogan Experience.