Guest curated by João Ferreira (art dealer and art adviser), “Past/Modern” adds historical context to the fair through gallery-curated presentations of works  by modern Masters  such as Christo Coetzee, Edoardo Villa, Hannes Harrs, Irma Stern, Judith Mason, Paul du Toit, Gregor Jenkin, Cecile Skotness, Lucas Sithole, Marion Arnold, Robert Hodgins, Tinus de Jongh and Willem Boshoff. The public walkabouts offer a great way to showcase outside studios and allow visitors to meet artists and listen to them talking about their passion. On Saturday February 19, budding art collectors can learn about Starting an Art Collection with art adviser and avid art collector Amy Ellenbogen. Later in the afternoon, curator Andrew Lamprecht will talk Understanding Contemporary Art. On Sunday February 20, Lamprecht will host The SOLO Section, sharing further insights into the featured “SOLO Section” artists and their response to the pandemic. This is followed by Female Artists, a curated tour of noteworthy female artists locally and internationally, an essential insight into some of the most important voices in the industry led by founder of Under the Aegis & curator Anelisa Mangcu. More than 98 local and international exhibitors from 20 different countries, including 17 first-time participants. Just as engaging digitally: The Artshell digital podium adds a whole new dimension, allowing for an intimate online experience between viewers and artworks, collectors and exhibitors. Simply click and explore. The public  have access to the digital fair from  February 18-20 2022 for free, by logging on to investeccapetownartfair.co.za. “ALT” is an offering that allows artists outside the conventional exhibition space a chance to showcase work in a nonconventional way in the art fair setting. This year it’s dedicated to projects that reflect the ways in which the art world has had to adapt in response to the global shift from physical to virtual. Showcasing sometimes underrepresented talent is in the DNA of Investec Cape Town Art Fair, especially talent from Africa. This year it is curated by Nkule Mabaso (head curator, Michaelis Galleries, SA) and Luigi Fassi (artistic director, MAN-Contemporary Art Museum, Italy). • For more information, log on to investeccapetownartfair.co.za. Follow Investec Cape Town Art Fair on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Hashtag #ICTAF