Health minister Joe Phaahla has appointed a five-member appeal committee to adjudicate a challenge to the Covid-19 vaccination of adolescents between the ages of 12 and 17 years. The organisation Free the Children — Save the Nation has formally appealed the decision to approve vaccines for children, arguing this age group is effectively not at risk from the coronavirus and therefore does not require vaccination for their protection. The organisation — together with the ACDP, the Caring Healthcare Workers Coalition and Covid Care Alliance — late last year launched an application before the high court in Pretoria seeking an urgent interdict to halt the rollout of children’s vaccinations. After a clear and steady decline in Covid-19 infections in the country, “the past 14 days have given a more confusing picture”. This is according to health minister Joe Phaahla, who said on Friday morning: “We are seeing a less resilient decline in infections. We can call it a stalemate. There is no serious decline and no worrying rise.” The change from a decline to a plateau is likely linked to the opening of schools, and human movement at the tail end of the holidays. Testimony to the link with schools opening is a clear rise in infections among those under age 20. Ukraine registered a record daily high of 43,778 new coronavirus infections over the past 24 hours, the health ministry said on Friday. The previous high of 39,620 cases was reported on Thursday. Ministry data showed 174 new related deaths. Ukraine's total infections in the pandemic stands at 4.2 million so far, with 100,983 deaths. Reuters SA's Afrigen Biologics has used the publicly available sequence of Moderna's mRNA Covid-19 vaccine to make its own version of the shot, which could be tested in humans before the end of this year, Afrigen's top executive said on Thursday. The vaccine candidate would be the first to be made based on a widely used vaccine without the assistance and approval of the developer. It is also the first mRNA vaccine designed, developed and produced at lab scale on the African continent. The World Health Organisation (WHO) last year picked a consortium, including Afrigen, for a pilot project to give poor and middle-income countries the know-how to make Covid-19 vaccines after market leaders Pfizer, BioNTech and Moderna declined a WHO request to share their technology and expertise. Japan serious Covid-19 cases crossed 1,000 for the first time in four months, data showed on Friday, as the Omicron variant fuelled record infections and burdened the medical system. Seriously ill patients climbed by 131 to 1,042 cases from the day before, the health ministry said, the highest since September when the Delta variant drove a fifth wave of cases. Japan recorded 96,748 new cases on Thursday. Most regions are now under infection control measures to try to blunt the spread of Omicron that has exploded among a population where less than 5% have received vaccine booster shots. The government is considering a two-week extension of the curbs in 13 regions, including its capital Tokyo, the Fuji News Network said on Thursday. Tokyo raised its coronavirus alert to the highest level on Thursday. The city government also laid out revised criteria for requesting a full state of emergency. Tokyo will request an emergency declaration if either the occupancy rate of hospital beds for serious patients or the rate of patients needing oxygen reaches 30%-40%, and the 7-day average of new cases hits 24,000. Reuters According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the likelihood of Covid-19 being spread on shoes and infecting someone is low. A 2020 study in Wuhan, China found that healthcare workers' shoes were possible carriers of the virus after touching an infected floor. Half of the samples taken from the soles of the shoes tested positive and may have led to the virus being detected in another area. WHO Europe director Hans Kluge says that the pandemic is not over, but the Covid-19 situation in Europe is changing. Kluge cites high vaccination rates, the milder Omicron variant and the end of winter as factors that create an opportunity to take control of virus transmission. After being largely closed off for two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic, New Zealand has announced a phased reopening of its border.