Norway will scrap nearly all its remaining Covid-19 lockdown measures as high levels of coronavirus infections are unlikely to jeopardise health services, Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere said on Saturday. The Nordic country, which removed most curbs on February 1 will still keep some restrictions for the Arctic archipelago of Svalbard. The new rules will take effect from "We are removing almost all coronavirus measures," Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere told a news conference. -Reuters Hong Kong reported a record 1,514 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, as officials struggling to contain an expanding outbreak despite the most stringent restrictions yet met across the border to discuss support from China. Hong Kong and mainland China are among few places in the world still aiming to suppress every Covid-19 outbreak instead of trying to live with the virus, but the Omicron variant has proven tough to keep under control in the global financial hub. New infections were up from Friday's 1,325, and another 1,500 or so came out positive in preliminary tests which may be added to the count in the near future. Three people died. -Reuters Police said they stopped 500 vehicles that were trying to get into Paris on Saturday in a 'freedom convoy' protest against Covid-19 restrictions. The vehicles were intercepted at three entry points into the French capital and more than 150 tickets were handed out, police said on Twitter. Police have mobilised thousands of officers, set up checkpoints and deployed armoured personnel carriers and water cannon trucks in preparation for the protests. -Reuters China's medical products regulator said on Saturday it has given conditional approval for Pfizer's Covid-19 drug Paxlovid, making it the first oral pill specifically developed to treat the disease cleared in the country. The National Medical Products Administration said Paxlovid is approved to treat adults who have mild to moderate Covid-19 and high risk of progressing to a severe condition. Further study on the drug needed to be conducted and submitted to the authority, it said. -Reuters Days-long rallies against Covid-19 vaccination mandates picked up in numbers in New Zealand and Australia on Saturday, with protesters blocking roads and disrupting life in the countries' capitals. About 10,000 protesters gathered at Canberra's major showgrounds, forcing the cancellation of a popular charity book fair, bringing traffic to a standstill and blocking roads in the Australian capital. Police said three people were arrested, but overall the crowd was "well behaved". -Reuters China's National Immigration Administration said it will not be renewing passports for non-essential travel while the international Covid-19 epidemic situation is still severe and cross border travel poses "great security risks". The administration said in a statement on social media it will "normally issue passports" for individuals who need to travel abroad for study, employment, or business. But rumours it will issue passport renewals for individuals looking to travel abroad for leisure are false, the authority said. -Reuters