Are you an amateur or professional photographer who would like to share your best images with the world and stand a chance of winning a share of prizes worth nearly R150,000, including Huawei smartphones? The inaugural Photo Meister Awards, presented by Jägermeister in partnership with the Sunday Times and Sowetan, is the opportunity you've been waiting for. Choose your best images from the past year, match them to one of the five awards categories and submit them (see “How to enter” below). Entries will go to a panel of judges, each of whom will select five finalists in one category. The winner in the category will then be decided by public vote. A curated photographic exhibition will be held at FotoZA Gallery in Johannesburg, where all finalists' photographs will be displayed. The Photo Meisters will be announced at this event.“We are Meisters, we master our own destiny,” said Donné Wolk, marketing manager at Jägermeister SA. “We believe people should live their lives boldly and be masters of what they do, and master their craft — whatever that craft is.“Jägermeister wants to give aspiring photographers the platform and mentorship to own their skill and master their craft. We challenge you to follow your passion, stay true to who you are, rise above convention, and enter now!” FASHION | From the glitzy runways of high fashion to the casual chic of SA’s sidewalks and the glamour of our trendsetters, the perfect fashion shot needs to be visually arresting and creative — and we’re looking for the shot with the X-factor. Entries can be shot on any device. DESIGN | Be it captivating architecture or a dramatically backlit leaf, we’re looking for a single shot that captures the beautiful patterns and textures of everyday life. The key is to make the most of the core elements of a photograph: light, form and texture. Entries can be shot on any device. PORTRAIT | Capturing the character of a person in a single shot is what a good portrait photograph is all about. We’re looking for a single image that gives the viewer a deeper insight into your subject. Be it a studio shot, a candid photo or a self-portrait, we want to see pictures that evoke, arrest and inspire. Entries can be shot on any device and photographs should not contain any persons under the age of 18. AFTER DARK | It all starts when the sun goes down. We’re looking for shots that capture the element of surprise, a hint of drama and a moment of fun. This is an opportunity to get creative and show us how the world and its people transform after dark. Entries can be shot on any device. PHONE PHOTOGRAPHY: STREET LIFE | The mobile phone is the perfect tool for street photography — light, easy to use and always with you. Great street photography is all about framing, imagination and an appreciation for the human condition. We’re looking for a single shot that captures anything from an authentic nightlife moment to chance encounters of all kinds. Only mobile-phone shots can be entered in this category. Email your image or images to meisterphotos@arena.africa along with your name, surname, telephone number, ID number and the category in which you're entering each image. Supply a caption for each image including background information: explain the circumstances surrounding the image and tell us briefly why you are entering it. Captions must also include the date and location of the image; the device the image was taken on; and any settings used to capture the image. Terms and conditions apply — please review in full below. Please complete the following form after you have emailed your entries as directed in step one. Can't see the form? Click here. 1. General information 2. Conditions of entry 3. Image rights 4. File upload specifications, image manipulation and authenticity assurance 5. The judging process 6. The prizes 7. Ethical requirements 8. Disqualification 9. Personal data