The DA-led coalition in Ekurhuleni faces risk of collapse if the party maintains its stance against working with the EFF,  ActionSA said on Monday. In a media briefing regarding the state of the coalition government in the municipality, ActionSA bemoaned a lack of commitment from coalition partners, saying this would negatively affect service delivery. Dominating the briefing were tensions between the DA and EFF, who apparently cannot reach an agreement, leaving the co-governance of the municipality without the majority it requires to make critical decisions  including passing the budget. ActionSA said on Monday if the issues in the municipality were not resolved, there was a risk of handing the metro  back to the ANC. The DA-led multiparty government, which includes Freedom Front Plus and ACDP but excludes the EFF, falls short of the threshold needed to pass the municipal budget. ActionSA national chairperson Michael Beaumont said the party was not trying to bring the red berets into a coalition agreement but rather to ensure a smooth-running government and effective service delivery for  residents. The DA has the majority of 65 seats followed by ActionSA  with 15. The EFF  could help the multiparty government meet majority voting requirements. Here are the main concerns expressed by ActionSA leader Herman Mashaba and Beaumont on Monday. Beaumont said from the onset of the coalitions talks, ActionSA had been concerned  the DA-led multiparty government did not have enough numbers  to ensure stable governance. He said  initially parties expressed commitment  to ensuring the sustainability of the coalition in the city,  but this has not materialised. “The reality was that  shortly after  a council meeting  committee chairs were elected by a majority that is not the coalition, because the coalition had not obtained the majority. That was the first indication to ActionSA this was going to become a problem,” he said. Beaumont said the governance challenges in the municipality  were a “mathematical problem” and  it was not possible to have a stable government without the support of the EFF. He said from the onset there were concerns over how the coalition would approve budgets and survive motions of no confidence. Mashaba said he felt betrayed by the DA’s refusal to work with the EFF, considering the party's initial agreement and commitment to ensuring stable governance. He claimed the DA approached him to bridge a working relationship with the EFF. “Why did you approach the EFF in the first place? Why did you ask Herman Mashaba to intervene and still be prepared to collapse this government? That is a major concern.” Mashaba said the EFF was prepared to keep the ANC out of power in Ekurhuleni and support the DA-led multiparty government in exchange for committee chair seats, a deal he said was refused by the DA. “They would have loved to be in our government but because of the toxic relationship with the DA, they are happy to play the oversight role. This was a no-brainer for any party that wanted to see a stable government, but unfortunately, the DA refused,” said Mashaba. 