Former state security minister Ayanda Dlodlo on Tuesday refuted claims  that her office provided no intelligence before  and during the July 2021 unrest and looting  in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. Dlodlo took a swipe at police minister Bheki Cele, who  made the claims against her. She said her office could not be held accountable if Cele’s own department failed to ensure  he received the intelligence reports that had been compiled, saying  this was not her responsibility. Dlodlo was testifying before the SA Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) in Sandton on Tuesday. The commission is investigating the unrest  in the two provinces after  former president Jacob Zuma’s incarceration in July last year. She said all the information the State Security Agency (SSA) had was tabled to the National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (NatJOINTS), which she pointed out was chaired by officials of the police service and co-chaired by the SSA and the military. “The SSA warned of growing instability which undermined the efforts of the state,” Dlodlo said. She claimed  the warnings came out long before the unrest, from as far back as December 2020. At that point, the warnings were that  unrest was brewing and would most likely happen in the next year. Dlodlo went through a long list of alerts her department had issued before the unrest. This included a January 2021 “red alert” after they received messages from KwaZulu-Natal calling for a provincial shutdown and the removal of President Cyril Ramaphosa. The role of the SSA, she said, was to provide the police with information, and it was up to them to prepare based on this. Between March and July 2021, the SSA issued 11 alerts, most of which had links to Zuma’s Constitutional Court appearance. On July 10 2021, a red alert was also issued by the SSA after threats made on the life of then deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. Zondo was central to Zuma’s eventual incarceration as Zuma had repeatedly refused to appear  before  the state capture inquiry which he was chairing. Dlodlo told the SAHRC  she was pained at the criticism  tabled against the SSA after the unrest, saying: “The SSA has hard-working individuals. South Africans should not think they are not safe.” She stressed  the SSA could have done better because there was always room for improvement, but said they did all they could with the resources  they had. Dlodlo also highlighted the issues  between herself and KwaZulu-Natal police chief Lt-Gen Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi during that time, saying once Mkhwanazi went on paternal leave, it seemed there was easier flow of communication between her department and the police. She said in several instances, malls which were looted and burnt were  close to police stations. She stressed  these did not need intelligence intervention, adding  it was frustrating that such incidents were blamed on her office. The hearings continue.