Five years after his over-the-top, star-studded Agatha Christie adaptation Murder on the Orient Express proved a box-office hit, Kenneth Branagh again dons his preposterous moustache and polishes off his absurdly terrible Belgian accent for a second outing as Hercule Poirot in an equally over-the-top, star-studded and heavily CGI-ed version of Death on the Nile. It was supposed to land in 2019, but thanks to accusations of sexual misconduct against one of it’s stars, Armie Hammer, the release was delayed before Branagh and Disney decided  it would be too costly and time consuming to replace Hammer. He remains in the film. In spite of all the off-screen brouhaha, Branagh’s film is a dud — filled with some of the most uniformly terrible acting in recent big-screen dramatic memory. Attempts by writer Michael Green to graft some heavy backstory and supposedly relevant social-issue updates onto the solidly familiar suspects-and-master-detective-in-a-confined-space classic-Christie-murder-setup fall hopelessly flat thanks to the awfulness of the performances and a distinct lack of humour on the part of everybody involved. Christie’s book was published in 1934, has never been out of print and has spurned several popular and better executed on-screen adaptations over the years. In case you may have missed it, the story goes something like this ... Sexually charged newlyweds — wealthy heiress Linnet Ridgeway (Gal Gadot) and previously broke now well taken care of Simon Doyle (Hammer) have invited a few of their favourite people and family members to a luxurious honeymoon in Egypt during the last hurrah of the empire in 1937. They’re unfortunately stalked by Simon’s ex-girlfriend and Linnet’s ex-bestie, Jacqueline de Bellefort (Emma Mackey), who can’t forgive them for betraying her and is a little too keen to use the .22 calibre pistol she carries in her purse. Desperate to just enjoy the party and sex-in-exotic-climes promises of their honeymoon, Linnet and Simon enlist the help of Europe’s foremost detective and Movember-mascot Hercule Poirot (Branagh) to help rid them of their Jacqueline problem. Poirot just happens to be taking his own Egyptian break, but he soon finds himself along for what will predictably turn out to be a snake-infested, murderous ride on the heavily CGI-ed waters of a very artificial-looking Nile. He soon discovers that being a rich heiress is not all it’s cracked up to be and everyone on board has reasons to hate Linnet. There’s her ex-fiancé Dr Windlesham (Russell Brand); her scheming cousin and business manager Andrew (Ali Fazal); “bluesy-woozy” singer Salome Otterbourne and her niece and business manager Rosalie (Letitia Wright); Linnet’s socialite godmother turned ardent socialist Marie Van Schuyler (Jennifer Saunders) and her long-suffering nurse and companion Mrs Bowers (Dawn French); disgruntled French maid Louise Bourget (Rose Leslie); Poirot’s Murder on the Orient Express pal Bouc (Tom Bateman) and his overbearing artist mother Euphemia (Annette Bening). After spending more than half the film introducing the cast of suspects and their various backstories and Linnet-related grievances, Branagh finally gets to the murder before rushing through a series of red herrings, obvious clue-drops and arriving at the less than thrilling or surprising conclusion. It's all an overindulgent, glaringly artificial, colonial-era fantasy whose dullness and sluggish pace are only occasionally and unintentionally punctured by the increasingly jaw-droppingly terrible performances of a ludicrously fake-tanned cast that leaves you desperately hoping that Branagh’s ambition for a planned “new cinematic universe of Christie adaptations” is really just a nightmare. • 'Death on the Nile' is on circuit