Tourism minister Lindiwe Sisulu will appear before the ANC integrity commission over her recent opinion piece criticising the judiciary and the constitution. ANC treasurer-general Paul Mashatile  confirmed  Sisulu will be hauled to the commission in the coming days. This comes after the Sunday Times reported Sisulu came under fire at the party’s national executive committee (NEC) meeting last month, where ANC stalwart Derek Hanekom was said to have led the charge for her to appear before the commission for her comments and for implying  President Cyril Ramaphosa had lied about the outcome of their meeting. Ramaphosa had said  Sisulu had undertaken to apologise for her controversial remarks  about the judiciary. Mashatile said the ANC top six met with Sisulu this week where it was agreed  she should explain herself to Deputy President David Mabuza. He  confirmed  she will also be appearing before the integrity commission. “The officials of the ANC have met with minister Sisulu on Monday. There’s another meeting that is going to take place between her and the deputy president. I have been informed  the integrity commission has called her. I don’t know when she is appearing before them but she will be doing so,” Mashatile said. He said Sisulu explained what transpired when she allegedly said the president was lying. “Minister Sisulu explained to the leadership of the ANC what was happening. We had engagements with her and we want to keep it that way. We have asked her to see the deputy president. There are certain things she will explain to him and they will report to us,” Mashatile said. The Sunday Times reported  the NEC meeting heard stern calls for Ramaphosa to take action against Sisulu in government over and above her appearing before the integrity commission. NEC members said Ramaphosa must show no leniency. “We made it very clear to the president that she has crossed the line, and also she called the president a liar, so action must be taken against her in government,” an NEC member said after the meeting. “She serves in cabinet at the behest of the president. It’s not the ANC that appointed her but the president. He doesn’t bring a list of ministers to the NEC and say, ‘I want to appoint so and so.’ We  said he must take action. Let him decide what action he takes. “This matter does not deserve any leniency because the minister dares you as the president. Like in any employment [relationship], if you  challenge your boss, the boss will tell you to pack your things and go because he’s the boss. He’s the one in charge.” TimesLIVE