The KwaZulu-Natal health portfolio committee is satisfied with the progress made by the Vryheid District Hospital in its bid to become a regional health facility. The committee was completing its   unannounced oversight visits  to three hospitals in the province on Tuesday. The committee said unplanned visits were  the best method to get a clear picture of day-to-day activities in the health facilities. The hospital was identified by health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu as the district referral when there was a shortage of beds in Zululand. Nomakiki Majola, committee chairperson, said during a visit last year, the hospital refused to show them the budget for that financial year. They  resolved to return but this didn’t happen. Tuesday's surprise visit was to “check if  anything had  started before that formal date”. Majola said they were encouraged by the doctors’ efforts to improve and their overall state of readiness. “They have started to perform all the duties expected from a regional hospital. They have taken some of their doctors to Madadeni and Benedictine for training. We can go further to the issue of the National Health Insurance (NHI) where they have their doctors  contracted to visit our clinics for the purpose of implementing the NHI.” Committee members  were also impressed by the way they deal with victims of gender-based violence (GBV) — one of the most common crimes  in the province — in the crisis centre under the watch of a social worker and a clinical psychologist since November. “The way  they are doing their work and their road map for  victims of  GBV has been the best one. They also do follow-ups  with patients, which is in line with the social development department [requirements].” The committee also commended  efforts to improve  infrastructure. “The removal of  asbestos has started. The company has been  on site  since November last year and  work has started in most  buildings. It is a work in progress.” Last week the committee  visited the Inkosi Albert Luthuli hospital where committee members sought to establish the performance of the 19 operating theatres and how much  this contributes to  the high number of litigations faced by the provincial health department. The committee found  the hospital was understaffed, mainly due to losing staff to the Covid-19 pandemic, retirement and poaching of specialist staff to other provinces. The  shortage of staff leads  to underutilisation of beds due to unavailability of staff to manage special wards. At Town Hill  Hospital in Pietermaritzburg, the committee found shortages of junior medical personnel was one of the barriers to providing adequate patient care. This has often forced skilled nurses to step into  roles in which they are not supposed to work. This was the view of  hospital CEO  Reginald Hadebe, who  briefed the provincial legislature portfolio committee conducting an unannounced visit on Thursday. “If  there are good stories to tell about this hospital it would be that all  executive posts are filled. The problem lies with the foot soldier, where there is a vacuum,” said Hadebe. He listed enrolled nurses and nursing assistant  posts which  left the hospital limping. “This often doesn’t sit well with some  personnel, who  perceive  management  as cruel and insensitive,” said Hadebe. The hospital is currently treating 154 patients. It also works closely with Northdale district hospital. At the hospital’s child and adolescent unit, which admits young children who present   with psychiatric disorders, the committee found  it was without an occupational therapist. Primrose Mavangwe,  operational manager for the unit, said some parents found it hard to look after a child with an intellectual disability. “Parents become increasingly overwhelmed. There  is little we can do when it comes to their schooling because of a lack of support and because we are not teachers,” said Mavangwe. The unit accommodates  eight patients. Some  patients’ conditions can be linked to substance abuse and fractured family structures. Mavangwe said this pattern had been apparent  since she joined the hospital three years ago. “This paints a picture that mental health is a big problem for males.” Mavangwe said storm damage  before 2019 had destroyed two  wards,  and had a knock-on effect on the hospital’s waiting list. Specialist psychiatrist Karina Ranjit said Town Hill was the only hospital  servicing the region. The King Dinuzulu  hospital  in Durban also offers the services. TimesLIVE