An index measuring South African business sentiment rose to a three-month high in January after coronavirus restrictions were eased after the country’s exit from a fourth wave of infections. The SA Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Sacci) business confidence index rose to 94.1, from 92 in December, the group said on Wednesday. Africa’s most industrialised economy is reeling from the impact of the pandemic and the imposition of travel bans after its discovery of the Omicron variant, supply chain blockages, deadly riots and looting that erupted in July last year, port stoppages and ongoing electricity supply constraints.  Japan has decided to extend its Covid-19 quasi-state of emergency in Tokyo and 12 prefectures until March 6, public broadcaster NHK said on Wednesday. The government will add one more prefecture to the list of regions facing quasi-emergency measures including restrictions on the business hours of eateries, according to NHK. Reuters Hong Kong's daily Covid-19 infections nearly doubled to a record 1,161 cases on Wednesday, authorities said, as the global financial hub battles a rapid surge that is shaping as the biggest test yet of its 'dynamic zero' policy. The city has reported close to 4,000 infections over the past two weeks, up from just two in December, taking its tally to more than 17,000 since the outbreak began in 2020, with 215 deaths, though the figures are lower than other major cities in the world. Authorities have responded with the toughest measures since the start of the pandemic, which are taking an increasing social and economic toll on the city's 7.5 million residents. City leader Carrie Lam said on Tuesday that public gatherings of more than 2 people would be banned and added churches and hair salons to most venues, including schools and gyms, which have been forced to close. Many residents rushed to salons for a last haircut ahead of a mandated closure from Thursday. Hong Kong has stuck to a “dynamic zero” strategy employed by mainland China to suppress all coronavirus outbreaks as soon as possible to eliminate the virus. Lam said the city was not able to try to live with the virus, like most of the rest of the world is doing, because more than 50% of the elderly have not been vaccinated. About 80% of the city's residents have had at least one vaccine shot but many elderly people have been hesitant. Two elderly patients in their 70s died from coronavirus, authorities said on Wednesday. Around 200,000 residents and visitors in Discovery Bay, an area that is home to many expatriates, were ordered to test for Covid-19 after the government said it detected coronavirus in sewage samples. Typically, thousands of residents are mandated daily to test if they have been to an area where infections are detected. Among other measures, authorities are implementing a vaccine pass from Feb. 24, which will require proof of vaccination to enter many places, including shopping malls and supermarkets. Flights are down around 90% because of travel restrictions while most people, including the majority of civil servants, are working from home. Fitch Ratings said it was revising down the city's 2022 GDP growth forecast to 1.5% from 3.0% with the “dynamic zero infection” strategy likely to remain until 2023. Reuters Slovakia reported 20,582 new COVID-19 infections for Tuesday, the Health Ministry said on Wednesday, the highest daily tally since the pandemic started as the country is hit like others in central Europe by the spread of the Omicron variant. Reuters British health department minister Gillian Keegan has apologised for continuing a meeting after she was informed she had tested positive for Covid-19.In a thread on Twitter published late on Tuesday, Keegan said was informed that a precautionary lateral flow test had returned a positive result while speaking to a group in her role as minister for care and mental health. “I told them the result and took further precautions but with their consent, I stayed for a short period to hear their stories,” she said. The meeting was with three men who had lost their daughters to suicide.” I should have immediately ended the meeting and on reflection this was an error of judgment on my part.” Reuters Poland may lift its Covid-19 restrictions in March if daily infection numbers keep falling at the current rate, the health minister said in an interview published on Wednesday. A wave of Omicron cases pushed infections to a record high in late January, but numbers have since declined. “If the tempo at which infections are falling remains the same, there is a realistic prospect of lifting restrictions in March,” Adam Niedzielski told the Fakt tabloid. He said wearing masks in closed spaces would become a recommendation rather than a requirement and that returning to on-site classes in schools was a priority. Niedzielski said he wanted to shorten the isolation period for people infected with Covid-19 to seven days from 10 currently. Poland currently requires people to wear masks in enclosed public spaces and there are limits on the number of unvaccinated people allowed in restaurants and other venues. The regulations are often not strictly enforced. The country of around 38 million people had reported 5,224,144 cases of the coronavirus and 106,894 deaths as of Tuesday. Reuters Thermal scanners are effective in detecting people who have a fever but cannot detect those who are infected with Covid-19, the World Health Organisation says. The WHO said the scanner, used by many establishments and in workplaces,  is a helpful tool in the fight against Covid-19 by picking up a higher than normal body temperature that may point to symptoms of the virus. It, however, noted there are many causes of fever and one should call a healthcare professional if one has concerns. This is especially important in areas where malaria or dengue is widespread. As hundreds of people protesting vaccine mandates and pandemic restrictions blocked streets outside New Zealand's parliament on Tuesday, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said that the protesters did not represent the majority view. With Covid-19 cases still high nationwide, “now is not the moment” to drop mask mandates in schools and other public places, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky told Reuters on Tuesday.