Hemp and cannabis cultivation will be new industry, says Ramaphosa Ramaphosa signals the industrialisation of the production of hemp and cannabis. "Many countries have already advanced to higher levels," he says, referring directly to Lesotho. "Products to be eked out of hemp and cannabis are in great demand around the world." Eastern Cape and Pondoland area of KwaZulu-Natal will be big beneficiaries, he says. Remote-working visas on the cards, says Ramaphosa Visa application process for visitors to SA is being modernised and streamlined, says Ramaphosa. Updated critical skills list "ensures our immigration policy matches the needs of our economy". Remote-working visas and start-up visas are under consideration. 'Digital TV has given our people joy' "I have seen the joy that our people have when they gain access to digital and have the pleasure to watch television that is clear and has many more stations," says Ramaphosa, after decrying the "unacceptable delay" in migrating the TV signal from analogue to digital. Transnet will welcome private partners and provide access to its rail network The president says port inefficiencies are hampering exports but Transnet is focused on improving the situation. "Transnet will soon as for proposals for private partners," he said. Third-party access will also be offered to the Transnet freight rail network. Ramaphosa says massive amounts of renewable energy are on the way Ramaphosa says he is accelerating the implementation of far-reaching structural reforms to drive growth. He says the fragility of the electricity system continues to have a huge impact on the lives of South Africans. "Policy missteps" and state capture are some of the reasons but renewable energy is on the way in significant quantities. And he says there will soon be a competitive market for electricity generation. 'Government does not create jobs, businesses create jobs' Ramaphosa moves on to the record unemployment rate and says an unreliable electricity supply and the high cost of doing business is hampering the economy. "We all know that government does not create jobs, businesses create jobs," he says, to a round of ironic applause. "The key task of government is to create the conditions that will enable the private sector." National state of disaster will end soon, says Ramaphosa Nearly 42% of all adults and 60% of over-50s are fully vaccinated against Covid, says Ramaphosa, announcing that it is his intention to end the national state of disaster "as soon as we have finalised other measures under the National Health Act and other legislation to manage and contain the pandemic". Solidarity Fund raised R3.4bn Ramaphosa pays tribute to the way South Africans have responded to the Covid-19 pandemic and thanks health workers. He says the Solidarity Fund raised R3.4bn from more than 300,000 South Africans and companies. 'We need a new consensus' "We are standing together against corruption," Ramaphosa says in the opening section of his address. "The present situation of deep poverty, unemployment and inequality is unacceptable and unsustainable." He says SA needs a new consensus which recognises that the state must create an environment in which the private sector can invest and in which South Africans can live a better life. "We are all in this together and together we must find solutions." Ramaphosa starts speaking Bang on time, President Cyril Ramaphosa starts speaking. He reflects on the fire at parliament and the "extraordinary circumstances" in which the address is being held at Cape Town City Hall. "There are moments in the life of a natioin when old certainties are unsettled." 'Keep your masks on' Joint sitting of the national assembly and national council of provinces is told "Please keep your masks on". President Cyril Ramaphosa arrives at the Cape Town City Hall President Cyril Ramaphosa has arrived at the Cape Town City Hall to deliver his state of the nation address. Banners outside say "Welcome to parliament". Police and EFF clash before Sona outside Cape Town City Hall Lamola expects Ramaphosa to reveal details of corruption-fighting courts Justice minister Ronald Lamola expects President Cyril Ramaphosa to report back on the creation of four special courts dealing with corruption cases in his state of the nation address. “The president announced after the PPE scandal that we're going to create an additional four special-crimes courts, which we have already done and which we hope will ease the congestion on the [court] roll and expedite some of the specialised commercial crimes matters, including corruption,” Lamola said on the red carpet before the event. ‘It’s going to cost me a lot’: Finance minister steadies himself for Sona pledges There is no money. This was finance minister Enoch Godongwana’s response when asked whether he had the budget to implement what President Cyril Ramaphosa will announce during his state of the nation address tonight. “I can tell you it’s going to cost me a lot,” said Godongwana, chuckling. ANC chief whip Pemmy Majodina on this year's Sona WATCH | EFF’s Marshall Dlamini: ‘ANC incompetence has brought us here’ South Africans are eagerly awaiting the start of the state of the nation address (Sona) at 7pm on Thursday. President Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver the address, which will include his plans to bring about change in the country. EFF secretary-general Marshall Dlamini told the media the change of venue was forced on them by the incompetence of the ANC. “We are not supposed to be here. We’re supposed to be in parliament. We know we don’t have government. We have people who go there for salaries and to drink alcohol. It is incompetence that has brought us here,” he said. ANC MP Peace Mabe arrives at city hall 'We have to lift people’s hopes': deputy minister Nocawe Mafu EFF wants parliament involved in basic income grant plan The EFF wants a parliamentary process to guide how the country will implement a basic income grant. The party’s deputy president Floyd Shivambu said the process cannot be left solely to the executive to make a decision, saying none of these programmes ever see the light of day. “That discussion should not be reduced to the executive. Parliament has to engage itself in the discussions around the basic income grant. We need to start a parliamentary process of how we introduce a basic income grant, and it must be a grant, not the R350 introduced thus far," Shivambu said, speaking outside the Cape Town City Hall, where President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to deliver his sixth state of the nation address at about 7pm. Nothing will happen outside, says Cele — but he can't say what will happen inside Police minister Bheki Cele would not be drawn on what intelligence services have picked up about whether President Cyril Ramaphosa’s state of the nation address could be disrupted. Cele fielded questions from the media after addressing hundreds of police and City of Cape Town law enforcement officers at the Castle of Good Hope on Thursday. He said the police had nothing to do with what happened inside parliament. Cape Town police disperse protesters ahead of Sona Cape Town police dispersed a small group of protesters who had gathered at the corner of Darling and Corporation streets hoping to tell President Cyril Ramaphosa their grievances before the state of the nation address on Thursday evening. The residents, some from the Cape Flats, had hoped to get a glimpse of Ramaphosa on the red carpet in front of the Cape Town city hall. One of about 100 people, Ntombise Simelani, told TimesLIVE she wanted to plead with Ramaphosa for work. What to expect from Sona 2022 EFF's Floyd Shivambu 'just here to listen to lies' Guests starting to arrive at city hall SA is safe, Bheki Cele tells cops in pre-Sona pep talk Police minister Bheki Cele told police officers on Thursday that SA is not under attack. Cele’s statement came just more than a month after a fire gutted parliament’s National Assembly building. He addressed a contingent of police and City of Cape Town law enforcement officers at the Castle of Good Hope before the state of the nation address ‘Walking bus’ protesters raise their grievances 'We love this country': EFF secretary-general  Marshall Dlamini Police presence increases around city hall Grand Parade completely transformed WATCH | Bheki Cele promises SA will be safe ahead of Sona 2022 Police minister Bheki Cele had strong words for anyone considering disrupting the state of the nation address as law enforcement maintained a strong presence in the Cape Town city centre on Thursday. Cele addressed dozens of police officers at the Castle of Good Hope “There have been things that make South Africans not sure whether the country is stable, whether it is under any attack. We want to ensure South Africans SA is safe, SA is stable. There are things that will happen and will be taken care of. There is no panic,” he told them. WATCH LIVE | Police minister Cele addresses security forces ahead of Sona 2022 Police minister General Bheki Cele addresses security forces deployed in Cape Town for the state of nation address. Ramaphosa readies for arguably his toughest Sona yet President Cyril Ramaphosa goes into the 2022 state of the nation address under huge pressure. He speaks just seven months after the deadly July riots and looting, and at a time when SA’s economy is under huge strain and  infighting within the governing  party is rife (particularly in the wake of a dismal performance in last year’s local government election). Final preparations were under way on Thursday before   the address, which is expected to take place at 7pm. TimesLIVE will be running regular updates and rolling coverage of the event throughout the day, starting with some of the things SA can expect from Ramaphosa’s address: TimesLIVE