“I can rot in jail for all I care. I know the truth will come out one day and justice will be served.” So says Sipho Mkhatshwa, one of the men accused of murdering the daughter of   former EFF secretary-general Godrich Gardee. Mkhatshwa was speaking  on Monday during his bail application  in the Mbombela (Nelspruit) magistrate's court, where he was  questioned by his  counsel, advocate Sakhile Nkosi. Nkosi  asked Mkhatshwa to tell the court about  two visits he  had from Mbombela   police station commander Brig John Madonsela and  investigating officer (IO) Col Thamsanqa Mkhaliphi. Mkhatshwa  said the two officers visited him in prison and asked that he turn  state witness. “They told me  they know Albert Gama [accused 3] is not linked to the crime. They also told me they have arrested four more suspects in Thokoza, Ekurhuleni, and  the four men will implicate me in the crime. They told me they'll give me time to think about the offer and will come back again. “I obviously rejected this offer because I cannot be a witness to a crime I didn't witness. I can rot in jail if I have to, but I will not agree to doing something I have not done.” During his arrest,  Mkhatshwa had apparently implicated his two  co-accused and given a statement. He has since  said he agreed with what was in the statement to avoid further “torture from police”. “I didn't write that statement. The police officer came with a statement written already. He transferred it from one document to another. I just agreed with what was in there because I was trying to save my life.” Mkhatshwa  said  it was strange that every time the investigating officer visited him in prison he  was accompanied by  the station commander. “I even asked the IO if the station commander accompanies him to every case he's investigating. I'm really wondering what is the station commander's interest  in this matter.” Mkhatshwa is one of the three men  arrested in connection with the murder of Hillary Gardee. She  went missing on April 29 while shopping with her adopted toddler daughter. The child was found a few streets away from their home. Hillary’s body was found next to a pine plantation 40km outside Mbombela on May 2. She had been shot dead. Mkhatshwa's bail application stopped abruptly last month when his then attorney withdrew from the case, citing a conflict of interest. Prosecutor advocate Ntsika Mpolweni  suggested to  Mkhatshwa that his release on bail might disturb the public peace, as  people were picketing outside court. Mkhatshwa said: “Those people are picketing against the brutal killing of women and children. They want to see justice served. They are not protesting against me, it's nothing personal. They are fed up with femicide. If I was not in prison now I would be with them  because I agree with them in principle.” The bail hearing continues. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.