Beneficiaries of the R350 social relief of distress (SRD) grant  have until July 7 to update their information if they want to  be paid for April and May. The SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) issued a reminder over the weekend, urging beneficiaries to update their personal information which was initially incorrectly provided on the SRD website and/or alter their responses to the screening questions asked in their applications. “Clients who wish to update their screening questions for the assessment of the April and May periods should update their details by no later than July 7,” said Sassa. When will other social grants be paid this month? According to Sassa, social grant payments for July will start on Monday for older persons, followed by disability grants on Tuesday, with all other grants  paid from Wednesday. “Clients who do not have PIN codes or  have forgotten their PINs are encouraged to ensure  they reset their PIN codes at their nearest post office outlet. Those who have PIN codes and  remember them need not renew their PIN. “This will enable our clients to use all available channels to access their grants and give them the freedom to use their Sassa cards at all points of collection, such as ATMs and merchant stores Pick n Pay, Shoprite, Boxer and U-Save,” said the agency. Can I collect my grant before the mentioned dates? Sassa urged beneficiaries to only make their way to mobile pay points on specific dates to avoid disappointment. “Beneficiaries who receive their social grants at Sassa mobile pay points are advised  they can access their grants through the above-mentioned payment infrastructures on the allocated days for the specific grants, or any time thereafter, and do not have to wait for the cash payment dates. “Beneficiaries are  advised to be vigilant and cautious when using their pins at all times, and not to share this with anybody, even close family members.” Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.