Yellen says she had 'productive' meetings on Russian oil price cap US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said on Saturday she had productive meetings about a proposed price cap on Russian oil with a host of countries on the sidelines of a meeting of the finance chiefs of the Group of 20 major economies. Yellen said her bilateral meetings and the overall G20 sessions in Indonesia focused on the human and economic cost of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, with the United States and other countries "unequivocal in condemning their (Russia's) shameful actions." Russia says it is engaged in a "special military operation" in Ukraine. The US Treasury Department said Yellen met finance leaders from Saudi Arabia, Australia, South Africa, Turkey, and Singapore. She also had dinner with Canadian Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland, a Treasury official said. "On energy costs, I had productive bilateral meetings with over a half-dozen of my counterparts where we discussed the merits of a price cap and how it can help us achieve our goals of denying (Russian President Vladimir) Putin revenue for his war machine, while dampening energy costs," Yellen told reporters outside the meeting venue. She said a price cap was one of "our most powerful tools to address the high prices people are facing in America and around the world." Yellen said she also underscored the importance of taking action at the G20 to address the global food security crisis.Yellen met Saudi Finance Minister Mohammed Al-Jadaan, Australian Treasurer Jim Chalmers, South African Finance Minister Enoch Godongwana, Deputy Prime Minister Lawrence Wong of Singapore and Turkish Finance Minister Nureddin Nebati, the Treasury said.Russia's says its action in Ukraine are intended to root out what it regards as dangerous nationalists and demilitarise its neighbour. Ukraine and its Western allies say that is a baseless pretext for an unprovoked war of aggression. -Reuters Russia says it destroyed Ukrainian factory producing Tochka-U missile parts Russian armed forces have destroyed a factory in the Ukrainian city of Dnipro that produced parts for Tochka-U ballistic missiles, the Russian defence ministry said in a statement on Saturday. Russian forces have also shot down three Ukrainian airplanes and two helicopters, the ministry said. -Reuters Russian defence minister orders 'units in all areas' to step up Ukraine operations Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu has ordered Russian military units operating in all areas of Ukraine to step up their operations in order to prevent strikes on eastern Ukraine and other territories controlled by Russia, the ministry said in a statement on its website on Saturday. It said Shoigu "gave the necessary instructions to further increase the actions of groups in all operational areas in order to exclude the possibility of the Kyiv regime launching massive rocket and artillery strikes on civilian infrastructure and residents of settlements in Donbas and other regions". -Reuters At least three people were killed and 15 injured following a missile attack on the Ukrainian city of Dnipro Friday, the regional governor, Valentyn Reznychenko, said. "The rockets hit an industrial plant and a busy street next to it," Rezynchenko said on his Facebook page. He said "the Russian attack took the lives of three people, another 15 were injured. We are determining the extent of the destruction." -Reuters