Russian lawmakers on Tuesday gave the first stamp of approval to two bills that would authorise the government to oblige businesses to supply the military with goods and their employees to work overtime to support Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The initiatives come more than four months into what Russia calls its "special military operation," which has prompted Western countries to impose a wave of sanctions against Moscow. One of the bills — approved in a first reading by the State Duma, the lower house of parliament — said the state could impose "special economic measures" during military operations, requiring firms to supply goods and services to the military at the demand of the Russian government. An explanatory note attached to the bill said the military needed new materials and weapons repairs to pursue its Ukraine campaign: "The need to promptly meet these requirements, especially in the context of sanctions against Russia and Russian legal entities, will require us to temporarily focus our efforts on certain sectors of the economy ... and organise the supply of resources through state defence procurement." A second bill, also adopted in its first reading, would amend the labour code to grant the government the right to regulate working hours and determine off-days at given companies. This could mean the government could compel employees of businesses providing goods to the military to work at night, on weekends and holidays, and without annual leave. Both bills were introduced to the State Duma by the Russian government. They still need to undergo second and third readings, be reviewed by the upper house of parliament and be signed by President Vladimir Putin to become law. Reuters Russian defence minister Sergei Shoigu said on Tuesday that conscripts were not being sent to Ukraine to fight in Russia's "special military operation", the Russian state news agency TASS reported. Though President Vladimir Putin had previously said that draftees would not be deployed to Ukraine, the defence ministry admitted in March that a number of conscripts had seen action in the conflict zone.Russia conscripts around 400,000 young men annually for one year's compulsory military service, and their treatment is a sensitive political issue. Reuters IKEA will open for business for a final time in Russia on Tuesday, with customers permitted to buy goods in an online-only fire sale before the Swedish furniture company winds down its operations in a market to which it hopes one day to return. "From July 5 for a few weeks you can buy IKEA goods only on ikea.ru," IKEA said on its Russian website. "Goods will be on sale for as long as they are in stock." It was not possible to add items to the online basket as of 12.30pm in Moscow. "For technical reasons, accepting orders through the basket on the website is temporarily unavailable," IKEA said on its website. "We are working on solving the problem." IKEA took down an earlier message that read: "At the moment we are processing received orders manually." Selling surplus inventory and generating revenue in Russia may raise eyebrows, given the public and political pressure on companies not to do business there. IKEA still operates 14 malls in the country under the MEGA brand, though it said it is exploring options for its 17 furniture stores there which remain closed. IKEA said last month it would sell factories, close offices and reduce its 15,000-strong workforce in the country as it did not expect to resume sales in the foreseeable future. Its owner Ingka Group said in June it was open to returning to Russia one day, but that conditions were not in place right now. IKEA has said it will continue to pay its nearly 15,000 staff in Russia until the end of August. Footage obtained by the Baza Telegram channel last week showed people sprinting through an IKEA store as employees were permitted to return and use their 15% discount. Reuters The Kremlin said on Tuesday that no decision had been made on whether to switch sales of Russian liquefied natural gas (LNG) to roubles. Speaking to reporters, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said that no presidential orders were currently planned on the proposal, which would see certain countries pay for LNG in roubles. Russia's Gazprom could propose expanding its roubles-for-gas scheme for pipeline gas to include LNG, the Interfax news agency quoted a senior manager as saying on Monday. — Reuters Russian-imposed authorities in the southeastern Zaporizhzhia region of Ukraine, which is partly under Russian control, said on Tuesday that an agreement had been reached to sell grain abroad, mainly to the Middle East, Russian state news agency TASS said. The countries involved are mainly Iraq, Iran and Saudi Arabia, TASS reported, citing Yevgeny Balitsky, the head of the Russian-installed administration of the Zaporizhzhia region. Ukraine and the West accuse Russia of stealing Ukrainian grain. Moscow denies this. Reuters Russia plans to launch a railway link between its southern Rostov region and the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of eastern Ukraine, state news agency TASS reported on Tuesday, citing the Rostov region government. Russia established full control of Luhansk region on Sunday and is fighting to drive Ukrainian government forces out of Donetsk. — Reuters Turkey is threatening to veto Nato membership for Sweden and Finland, even as the military alliance prepared to formally pave the way for the two Nordic countries to join. Turkey will not ratify membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for the applicants if they don’t fulfil their promises to combat terrorism and extradite suspects under a memorandum of understanding reached at an alliance summit in Madrid last week, foreign minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said Monday. “They have to comply with this document, if they don’t then we won’t allow them to join Nato,” Cavusoglu told NTV television. All 30 allies are due to sign accession protocols for Sweden and Finland at a ceremony in Brussels on Tuesday, making the countries formal invitees and allowing them access to almost all Nato meetings. The protocol then has to be ratified by allies’ parliaments before the countries become members. Despite the Madrid agreement, Turkey’s lingering threat could still complicate the membership process. Bloomberg Much of the focus on sanctions on Russia’s commodity exports is on crude oil and natural gas, but coal is perhaps the best example of the challenges facing those seeking to punish Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine. Russia is the world’s fourth-largest coal exporter behind Australia, Indonesia and SA, and has the ability to supply both the Atlantic and Pacific basins. Europe, the main buyer of Russian coal, has proposed a ban on imports but it has yet to be fully implemented, while Japan also plans to end purchases from Russia. Elon Musk’s satellite internet service Starlink has been vital in keeping parts of Ukraine affected by the Russian invasion, including the front lines, connected, the country’s minister for digital transformation, Mykhailo Fedorov, said in an interview with Bloomberg TV. There more than 13,000 Starlink satellite Internet devices operating in Ukraine and Ukrainian officials are in daily contact with Musk’s representatives, Fedorov said. Bloomberg WNBA player Brittney Griner wrote to President Joe Biden, pleading with him to bring her and other Americans detained in Russia back home. Griner told Biden in the letter that she is “terrified I might be here forever”, according to the Associated Press. A representative for Griner delivered the letter to the White House, according to the AP. The representative, Lindsay Kagawa Colas, did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Bloomberg News. “On  July 4, our family normally honours the service of those who fought for our freedom, including my father who is a Vietnam War veteran,” the Phoenix Mercury centre wrote, according to AP. “It hurts thinking about how I usually celebrate this day because freedom means something completely different to me this year.” Griner, a two-time Olympic Gold medalist, faces a drug smuggling charge in Russia, where she could serve as many as 10 years in prison if convicted. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan said last week that the US considers Griner to be wrongfully detained and that officials are actively working to resolve her case. The WNBA player was detained in Moscow in February after police accused her of illegally trying to import hash oil into the country in vape cartridges. Griner’s wife, Cherelle, has called her “a political pawn.” A trial in Moscow began on Friday, the latest in a series of cases involving Americans held by Russian authorities amid deteriorating relations. In June, a Russian court sentenced another American, Marc Fogel, a former US diplomat and teacher in Moscow, to 14 years after convicting him of smuggling cannabis. He said he was carrying marijuana for medical purposes. Bloomberg Japan called on Russia to provide more details about a presidential decree that would transfer rights to the Sakhalin-2 natural gas project to a new Russian company. President Vladimir Putin’s forces closed in on their goal of capturing Ukraine’s eastern region of Luhansk as the country’s troops withdrew from the city of Lysychansk, the last Kyiv-controlled redoubt in the area. The Russian leader made a public display of the seizure and told military commanders to give soldiers who had captured the city a rest. Bloomberg European lawmakers are under pressure from Ukraine to block plans to treat gas as a green asset, plunging into serious doubt an EU Parliament vote that not long ago seemed set to endorse the proposal. The vote is set to take place on Wednesday, and was supposed to mark the easy passage of a New Year’s proposal by the European Commission to include gas and nuclear energy in the EU’s so-called green taxonomy. But Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine — and the energy crisis it fanned — has upended that process. Just last week, Ukraine’s ambassador to Germany called on European lawmakers to reject the Commission’s proposal, warning that it would benefit Russia and perpetuate European reliance on its gas supplies. Bloomberg Russian forces set their sights on their next objectives in Ukraine's eastern Donetsk province, after President Vladimir Putin claimed victory in neighbouring Luhansk province as the the five-month long war entered a new phase. The capture of the city of Lysychansk on Sunday completed the Russian conquest of Luhansk, one of two regions in Donbas, the industrialised eastern region of Ukraine that has become the site of the biggest battle in Europe in generations. Both sides have suffered heavy casualties in the fight for Luhansk, particularly during the siege of the twin cities of Lysychansk and Sievierodonetsk. Both cities have been left in ruins by the relentless Russian bombardment. Reuters