With great snow conditions, charming chalets, picturesque villages and the highest ski resort in Europe, France is the perfect place for a winter break with a partner, friends and family. If you are wondering which Alpine destination is best for you, these top favourite snowcapped all-inclusive resorts are listed for you to consider. Located high on a plateau in the centre of the French Alps, the vibrant resort of Alpe d’Huez has some of France’s best snow conditions for downhill and off-piste skiing. Alpe d’Huez Grand Domaine is one of the world’s largest ski areas and boasts one of the greatest unbroken verticals in the world — the 16km-long Sarenne descent. With more than 250km of slopes, Alpe d’Huez caters for skiers of all abilities, and non-skiers will enjoy the array of non-ski activities  from yoga, snow hiking, dog-sledding and the indulgent Club Med Spa by Payot.  Groups of friends and couples will love reconnecting within the cosiness of Club Med Alpe d’Huez and the nearly 300 days of sunshine the resort enjoys due to its prime location. The resort also has a wide variety of activities on offer, including great evening entertainment with live shows, music and DJ sets. In the Tarentaise valley of Savoie in the ski domain of Paradiski, one of the largest ski areas in the world, lies Club Med Les Arcs Panorama, a destination that has long been popular with skiers. With some of the most beautiful and peaceful forest runs to glide through on skis, a snowboard or a ski lift, it is perfect for and much-loved by beginners. This family-friendly resort has an amazing kids club for children aged four months to 17 years old complete with an innovative family restaurant where kids can treat their parents to dinner. For a more luxurious touch the resort has the Belvedere “Luxury Space” where one can enjoy champagne every evening. Spoil your family with a stay in the friendly Franco-Italian resort of Club Med La Rosière situated at 1,858m  in the Savoie region of France. It's the only Franco-Italian ski resort in the northern Alps and shares the spectacular San Bernado ski areas, which links La Rosière with La Thuile in Italy. With its 40 sweeping pistes, the resort is ideal for intermediate skiers and is one of the few where visitors can ski across the border into Italy. Steeped in history and tradition, La Rosière is dotted with charming traditional chalets and almost all the slopes have fabulous views of the dramatic mountainscapes. With its Alpine character, it is the perfect resort for families and offers childcare for kids from four months old. Due to its  proximity to Mont Blanc (the highest mountain in the Alps) and the Col du  Petit Saint-Bernard  pass, La Rosière guarantees a long ski season. Nothing highlights the best the Alps has to offer more than Peisey-Vallandry. At an incredible 1,600m in the Tarentaise Valley, it is a magical destination surrounded by pine forests and dramatic mountain peaks. If you are looking for a family-friendly destination, Peisey offers fun activities for both skiers and non-skiers. With skiing and snowboarding lessons for all levels, active holidaymakers will be delighted by the spectacular slopes to play on. Non-skiers have a variety of relaxing enjoyable activities like snowshoe-walking through the pine forests to explore the countryside and the Carita  Spa which is the perfect spot to unwind and relax with an indulgent treatment. One of the more vibrant and lively ski areas, Val Claret in the Tignes ski resort is a bucket list destination for that active holiday with friends and family. You will be amazed by the 300km of snow-covered terrain to explore and play in. It’s a good choice for early season skiing that's suitable for all levels. A stay at Club Med Tignes is not complete without experiencing “Vallon de la Sache”, the lost valley, or indulging your senses at the Club Med Spa by Sothys. Club Med Tignes also has an “Exclusive Space” which offers personalised butler services for guests and the largest indoor heated pool in the Alps. Considered one of the birthplaces of Alpine skiing, Val d’Isère is also home to some of the most famous après-ski and clubbing hotspots in the Alps. Don't miss après-ski fun at Val d’Isère La Folie Douce, dubbed the “highest club in Europe”. When it comes to accommodation, Club Med Val d’Isère has all you need to enjoy a stay that is luxurious, exclusive and relaxing for the entire family — because when you walk through the doors of Club Med Val d’Isère, you get the chance to discover the only Club Med Exclusive Collection resort  in the mountains. This charming resort has seen the greatest champions ski down its mythical slopes and is the ideal setting to experience luxury, intimacy and personal concierge service in this preserved jewel of Savoie. Val Thorens is the highest ski resort in Europe (2,300m) and offers amazing snowfall with great skiing conditions until early April. It is part of the largest snow playground known as Les Trois Vallées, which has more than 600km of runs and enough space to ensure you never have to ski the same slope twice during a week’s holiday. It is here you will find the modern Club Med Val Thorens Sensations. With its cutting-edge architecture and design, sleek and modern furniture and dynamic shades of pink and beige, Val Thorens is unlike any resort you’ve experienced before. The resort’s fun atmosphere is amazing for friends and couples. For some off-piste fun and partying, head over to 360 Bar, found at the bottom of the Moraine and Portette chairlifts, with DJs and live music to keep the party going during the afternoon, or spend a relaxing afternoon in the outdoor jacuzzi admiring the view. There are few experiences that can be as magical as a snow holiday or as exhilarating as learning to ski or perfecting your skill in France. Not only will you enjoy an amazing French Alpine experience in a winter wonderland, but you will be charmed by the village life, pleased by the gourmet cuisine and thrilled by all the activities on offer — making it the perfect adventure destination for 2022! This article has been paid for by Club Med.