Social development minister Lindiwe Zulu, who is also the chairperson of the ANC subcommittee on international relations, says the   government will not change its non-aligned position on  Russia's invasion of Ukraine. She was addressing  media on Monday on the party’s policy discussion document titled “In pursuit of progressive internationalism in a changing world”. In March, SA  abstained during a UN General Assembly motion to reprimand Russia — a move  criticised by some opposition parties, the  US and  EU, among others. At the time, SA  said the resolution did not create a conducive environment for diplomacy, dialogue and mediation. Zulu  said she had separate meetings with the ambassadors of Ukraine and Russia and shared  the same sentiments. “We needed to have an appreciation of both sides and our call, even to them [ambassadors], was we need peace, we need to make sure that the war ends,” she said. The price of staple foods, including maize and cooking oil, has  increased sharply due to restrictions on Ukrainian exports through its ports. DA leader John Steenhuisen has been at the forefront in calling for government to change its stance. In May he embarked on a six-day “fact finding mission” to Ukraine. On his return, he warned that  price increases stemming from the war would be unbearable in months to come. “The ripples of this war are only just starting to arrive on our shores, but they will soon be waves that will cause great suffering to ordinary South Africans and particularly to a sector of our society that cannot afford any further economic hardship.” Zulu said “as far as we are concerned there are two sides of the coin”. President Cyril Ramaphosa had spoken to Russian President Vladimir Putin and explained that SA preferred mediation in the conflict. Zulu was also quizzed on the ANC's  participation in African politics, and said  the party  remained committed to the continent’s drive for development, human rights and good governance. “However, I do want to indicate that sometimes it’s because of our own internal dynamics, our socioeconomic conditions, sometimes our own political space — we’ve got our own internal politics, not just ANC but the politics of SA. “But the message  we want to relay, and hopefully when conference rises and makes a statement, it will prove that we [are] not in the African continent just for lip service, because we believe the development of SA on its own without the development of the rest of the countries is meaningless.” The  ANC’s national policy conference scheduled for later this month is expected to be a platform to address  the pressing issues that  led the party to the precarious state it finds itself in. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.