Former Mamelodi Sundowns midfielder Tiyani Mabunda knows all about the intimidating Moulay Abdellah Stadium in Rabat. The 52,000-seater venue is expected to be full to the rafters for the 2022 Women’s Africa Cup of Nations (Wafcon) final between hosts Morocco and SA on Saturday. Having played at the venue and others in North Africa, Mabunda said Banyana Banyana must expect a hostile atmosphere from the passionate home supporters but they mustn’t be intimidated. “The passion that North African supporters display is unexplainable to be honest,”  said Mabunda, who helped Sundowns to win the Caf Champions League in 2016. “It is a totally different atmosphere to what we experience and know here in SA. Those supporters in North Africa bring a different kind of atmosphere and vibe to the stadium and it can be intimidating.” Though the environment is going to be intimidating, Mabunda is confident Banyana can hold their own. “Our ladies have been doing very well in recent years and they have been in that space before. So, it is for them now to go out there and show the whole nation and continent who they really are. “They must expect a full house because they are playing against the host nation and the supporters are passionate about the game but we will be rooting for them all the way here in SA.” Meanwhile, President Cyril Ramaphosa has sent his well-wishes to Banyana. Ramaphosa was hosting his Ivorian counterpart President Alassane Ouattara on Friday but took time to make a video call to the team’s camp in the North African country. “We are here and we want to applaud you, and to wish you the very best tomorrow,”  he said. “As you play in the final, you are making SA very proud. Even President Ouattara, as he is visiting SA, we have made him South African for this moment so that he can also wish you the very, very best. “He is very impressed with the progress you have made. With this call we want to strengthen your hand, your boots and your efforts to go out and win the cup for SA.” Ramaphosa also congratulated coach Desiree Ellis after she was named Caf’s coach of the Year on Thursday. “I also want to congratulate you Desiree Ellis for having been, I believe, made coach of the year. We applaud you, we are very proud of you, we are really so, so proud. “And with Mr Danny Jordaan there, I can see him in his beautiful Madiba shirt. I know that he will be supporting you all the way to your victory. So today you are getting this encouragement to go and play your best football, and just vanquish the Moroccans and bring back the cup. “The whole of SA will be watching, so just know that I will be among those who will be watching. We have nothing but the best wishes for all of you to succeed.” Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.