SA's  Banyana Banyana  are one win away from  the Women's African Cup of Nations (Wafcon) trophy. The team will go head-to-head with Morocco at Prince Moulay Abdellah Stadium, Morocco, at 10pm on Saturday. The SA Football Association (Safa) vowed to give Banyana Banyana a R10m bonus if they won the competition. Each player will take home R400,000 if they come  home with the trophy. It will be Banyana's first Wafcon trophy after finishing runners-up on five occasions. After Banyana Banyana’s 1-0 victory over Zambia in the semifinals, goalkeeper Andile Dlamini told the SA Football Journalists' Association  SA “needs the win”. “Our country needs this. Everyone needs to be motivated in our country,” said Dlamini. “Nelson Mandela once said it: 'Sport brings hope. Sport unites', and I'm thankful  we are going to the final. “I'm grateful  we were in the right position at the right time for the referee to make that call and VAR to make that call. What I can take from this is we are united, we are a team. “And whether the weather goes this way or that, we are united. As a leader, I will keep on encouraging my teammates. I'm there for them. It's not easy,” she said. Speaking about  Banyana's wins to secure a place in the final, coach Desiree Ellis said the team did not want a repeat of 2014 where they had to go the longer route to qualify for the World Cup but fell short and missed out. “In 2014 we were in a similar position where we lost the semifinals and we had to play a third place playoff and we did not make it, so we had to make sure,” said Ellis. “I want to commend the players, even though it was frantic and hectic they fought for each other and made sure  we did not concede. “The pressure of qualifying is off our backs. In each game we have shown  we can create and we just need to be more clinical. The Tunisia game could have gone a different direction if we did not take our chances. In these knockout games you get a one-off and you don’t get a second chance. There is no three points and you need to make sure you win.” Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.