Retail group Pick n Pay has responded to a viral video of a mouse  eating pastrami in one of its supermarkets, saying  the footage is old and the shop is safe for shopping. According to social media users, the viral video was taken at a  Pick n Pay outlet in the V&A Waterfront in Cape Town. In it, the mouse can be seen walking across a stack of pastrami and nibbling on the meat. A shop assistant can also been seen in the background, unaware of the presence of the mouse. Taking to Twitter, Pick n Pay said  the video was old. “This is an old post  making its rounds. This issue has been addressed and the necessary steps have been taken to ensure  this  store is safe for shopping,” said the group. The video drew mixed reactions, with some social media users saying rodents were a thing at  some Pick n Pay outlets. “I sometimes see rat droppings on the snacks shelves, especially biscuits, and  products partly eaten by  rats,” said one user. “Apologies for the poor conditions experienced in store. We will address this incident with our management team,” said Pick n Pay. This was not the first time customers  spotted rodents at supermarkets or in their food. A woman in Gqeberha  discovered a live mouse crawling inside a packet of bread she bought at Checkers in Metlife Plaza, Kabega Park a few years ago. The woman’s daughter  spotted the rodent when she was about to make  sandwiches for the family. “I was on the phone with a friend when I heard a scream from the kitchen,” said the woman. She said she rushed to the kitchen and  managed to close the packet before the mouse was able to escape. “I was in absolute shock,” she said. “What if we had eaten the first  slices before finding the mouse?” Shoprite Checkers spokesperson Sarita van Wyk said the matter was being investigated, while Pioneer Foods spokesperson Leanne Koopman said they believed it was “unlikely  the source of infestation occurred at our premises or in transit or dispatch to the retailers”. Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.