The Kremlin said on Thursday that Moscow hopes that Britain's next prime minister will adopt a level-headed position towards Russia. Speaking to reporters on a conference call, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said: "We hope that the future Prime Minister of Great Britain will lean towards more balanced rhetoric towards our country. "Former finance minister Rishi Sunak and foreign secretary Liz Truss will battle it out to become Britain's next prime minister after they won the final lawmaker vote, setting up the last stage of the contest to replace Boris Johnson. Reuters The Kremlin said on Thursday that Russian President Vladimir Putin was in good health, dismissing rumours that he is unwell. Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov told reporters there had been speculation in the West about the president's health in recent months, but reports he was ill were "nothing but fakes". Putin coughed during a public appearance on Wednesday, when Interfax news agency quoted him as saying he had caught a slight cold during a visit to Iran the previous day. "It was very hot in Tehran yesterday, plus 38 (degrees Celsius), and the air conditioning was very strong there. So I apologize," Putin, 69, was quoted as saying. International scrutiny of his health has intensified over recent months, including when he was photographed meeting foreign and Russian officials while seated at opposite ends of long tables as a precaution against Covid. At times he has also appeared to walk stiffly. CIA Director William Burns was asked about the issue during a security forum in the United States on Wednesday, where he said that Putin was "entirely too healthy". Reuters Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Thursday that Western sanctions imposed on Russia over its actions in Ukraine would not cause it to change course.In a call with reporters, Peskov said: "Even the harshest sanctions have never made countries change their position." Reuters Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Thursday there had been no contact with the United States over peace talks with Ukraine. "The American administration forbids its wards in Kyiv to even think about talks with us, and evidently forces them to fight to the last Ukrainian," Zakharova told reporters. Peace talks between Russia and Ukraine have been frozen since early April, when ceasefire talks brokered by Turkey in Istanbul collapsed. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has played down the prospect of peace talks while Russian troops still occupy Ukrainian territory. On Wednesday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that peace talks with Ukraine made "no sense". Russian President Vladimir Putin said on July 7 that his country had not "started anything yet in earnest" in Ukraine, and dared the West to try to defeat it on the battlefield. Reuters Two people were killed and 19 wounded in Russian shelling of the eastern Ukrainian city of Kharkiv on Thursday, the regional governor said. Oleh Synehubov, governor of the Kharkiv region, said four people were in a serious condition. Russia, which invaded Ukraine on February 24 in what it calls a special military operation, denies deliberately targeting civilians though its attacks have devastated Ukrainian towns and cities. Reuters Ukraine's central bank devalued the hryvnia currency by 25% against the US dollar on Thursday because of the impact of the war with Russia.It said it had set the new hryvnia rate at 36.5686 to the dollar. The bank said in a statement that it had acted "in view of the change in the fundamental characteristics of Ukraine's economy during the war and the strengthening of the US dollar against other currencies. "The bank also said that the devaluation would aid the "competitiveness of Ukrainian manufacturers ... and support the stability of the economy in wartime conditions." The devaluation comes a day after Ukraine asked its creditors for a two-year payment freeze on its international bonds in an attempt to focus its dwindling financial resources on repelling Russia. At the end of 2020, Ukraine had $130 billion in external debt outstanding, according to World Bank data. Ukraine has earmarked nearly $20 billion in international dollar and euro-denominated bonds maturing from 2022 to 2030 to be subject to the debt freeze. Due to the effects of the war, Ukraine's economy is expected to contract in the range of 35-45% for 2022. Reuters German national railways Deutsche Bahn (DB) plans to start freight train services to carry Ukrainian grain exports to German ports for loading on ships, DB said. Grains will be brought by rail to German ports including Rostock, Hamburg and Brake, DB said. Details of capacity were not given but several trains a week are planned, largely picking up Ukrainian grain in Romania. The DB has been running trains from Germany loaded with aid cargoes for Ukraine and it is planned that freight trains will load grain on their return journeys. Ukrainian agricultural exports were about 2.5 million tonnes in June against up to 6 million tonnes of grain per month before Russia invaded the country on Feb. 24. Moscow calls its action a "special military operation". U.N agencies have warned that lack of Ukrainian grain, which typically goes to the Middle East and Africa, is threatening starvation and mass migration on an "unprecedented scale". Much of Ukraine’s current grain exports are moved by truck and river ships to neighbouring countries including Romania and Poland for loading on ocean ships but the different gauge of Ukrainian railway tracks means most EU trains cannot be used inside Ukraine. Ukraine urgently needs to export grain as its harvest starts this summer with farmers facing a lack of storage capacity, with hopes talks about establishing a safe ocean shipping corridor in the Black Sea for Ukrainian exports could continue this week. Reuters Russian forces are likely closing in on Ukraine's second biggest power plant at Vuhlehirska, 50 kilometres (31 miles) north-east of Donetsk, British military intelligence said on Thursday. "Russia is prioritising the capture of critical national infrastructure, such as power plants," Britain's defence ministry said in a regular bulletin. The ministry also added that Russia is probably attempting to break through at Vuhlehirska, as part of its efforts to regain momentum on the southern pincer of its advance towards the key cities of Kramatorsk and Sloviansk. Reuters The United States hopes to see a global price cap on Russian oil introduced by December, US Deputy Treasury Wally Adeyemo said on Wednesday. "We are following on what the Europeans have done," he told the Aspen Security Forum in Colorado. "They introduced the idea of looking to do a price cap but they also said by December, they plan to put in place their insurance ban. "Our goal is to make sure that as that insurance ban is going into place, we're in a position where there's a price cap that can be joined onto that that is a global one that helps to drive down global energy prices and also allows Russian energy to flow into the market place." Reuters Nominations on the Nord Stream 1 pipeline for gas flows from Russia into Germany were at 29,284,591 kwh/h for 0600-0700 CET, from zero previously, data from the operator's website showed. Data for actual physical flows for the same time period have not been updated, and are at zero for the 0400-0500 CET period. Europe is on edge about the restart of the Nord Stream 1 gas pipeline from Russia after annual maintenance was set to end on Thursday, with governments bracing for possible further supply cuts. Reuters Moscow's military goals in Ukraine now go beyond the eastern Donbas region, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said, as the Kremlin's forces shelled eastern and southern Ukraine.