Spotlight is our entertainment bite-sized snapshot featuring new entertainment releases in SA, exclusive film trailers and much more. New episodes are out every Thursday on Sunday Times Lifestyle, Sowetan Entertainment and on YouTube, plus you can follow Spotlight on Facebook. Spotlight brings exciting news this week of local content entertainment offerings. We tease the upcoming new local drama series on Netflix, Justice Served, enjoy a wonderful remix of legendary Ladysmith Black Mambazo’s music from Gallo Record company, and preview a bouquet of quality local releases available to stream on Showmax. Spotlight is also proud to offer our viewers a special advance screening of the animated DC League of Superpets, exclusively on July 24. Make sure you visit @Spotlight South Africa for details on how to secure your spot and enjoy the voice talents of dynamic duo Kevin Hart and Dwayne Johnson ahead of the official release. Showmax comes to the rescue if you missed quality local cinema releases like Sons of the Sea, Kaalgat Karel, Meet Melusi, Down So Long, and other award-winning local movies. Don’t miss Gallo’s recently released cross-continental remix of Ladysmith Black Mambazo’s track Ayikh’ Indaw’ Enjengekhaya, reworked by German dance music visionary Henrik Schwarz. His reimagining places the sound in an electronic music context while remaining true to its composer, Joseph Shabalala. It is available on all streaming platforms. We take a sneak peek at the upcoming local Netflix series, Justice Served. Exploring themes of corruption, a fractured constitution and a disillusioned democracy, the series features Hlomla Dandala, Pallance Dladla, Lerato Mvelase and Morne Visser. Don’t miss our exclusive chats with them in upcoming Spotlight episodes. And if you are looking for something to make you feel warmer, look out for the segment on the upcoming action thriller, Hot Seat, about a former hacker faced with the choice of his daughter’s life or stealing digital funds. Starring Mel Gibson and Kevin Dillon, it reaches cinemas on July 22. For full interviews, breaking news, trailers, clips and competition details, visit our Spotlight Facebook page. See you at the movies! Presenter Collette Prince is styled and dressed by We Are Egg. Shop online. We Are Egg is a beautifully curated, experiential department store of local and international fashion, beauty, home, jewellery and food. More details on Instagram about Collette's look of the week here. This week Spotlight is giving away tickets for our first special screening, to DC League of Superpets. To enter, visit the Spotlight South Africa Facebook page. Terms and conditions apply. Winners will be drawn randomly and notified by SMS after the competition has closed.  Entrants’ personal details will not be retained for marketing purposes. Winners have to provide proof of age (ID/driver’s licence) and cover their own travel and accommodation expenses. By entering participants agree to have their names published on TimesLIVE, SowetanLIVE and Spotlight South Africa on Facebook. Employees of Arena Holdings and their family members are not eligible to enter.