Foreign partners need to increase their financial support for Ukraine to help the country maintain financial stability during the war with Russia, an adviser to the Ukrainian presidential office said on Monday. Tymofiy Mylovanov said the current size of loans and other assistance was not enough to finance the state's needs, which had increased significantly because of the war while revenues had fallen. "If we don't cut expenditures, don't increase inflows, in particular from international partners, if we don't stabilise the situation, then ... we may have a month or two to spare, and then we will have a crisis," Mylovanov told national television. – Reuters Britain's media regulator, Ofcom, said Russian news channel RT had failed to preserve due impartiality in relation to its coverage of the conflict in the Donbas region of Ukraine. "Ofcom considers that these breaches were serious and repeated, and we are minded to consider them for the imposition of a statutory sanction," the regulator, which suspended RT's licence in March, said. Ofcom had cited RT's links to the Kremlin when it cancelled its licence to broadcast in the UK in March, saying that RT had received funding from the Russian state. The watchdog had launched 29 investigations into RT after complaints from viewers and its own monitoring of the channel. The breaches related to its coverage of the conflict in late February and early March. In response to the findings, RT said: "The logic of these decisions mirrors the one guiding their delivery many months after Ofcom's revocation of RT's licence: it is a trial after a conviction." – Reuters Six people were killed in Russian shelling of the town of Toretsk in the Donetsk region of east Ukraine on Monday, the State Emergency Service said. Rescuers retrieved five bodies from the rubble of a two-storey house and another person died in hospital, it said on Facebook. Russia denies deliberately targeting civilians. – Reuters Two Balkan states signed an agreement that will allow North Macedonia and Albania to formally start negotiations to join the EU, a process long-delayed by bilateral quarrels between countries in the volatile region. Bujar Osmani, North Macedonia’s foreign minister, signed the protocol with his Bulgarian counterpart in Sofia, Bulgaria’s capital, on Sunday. The move came a day after North Macedonia’s parliament approved a EU proposal that aims to help resolve a Balkan dispute and unlock the organisation’s enlargement. Bulgaria had for years blocked the start of accession talks due to a conflict over the recognition of the Macedonian language and the rights of Bulgarian nationals within North Macedonia. Albania’s negotiations were also delayed, as it has been coupled with North Macedonia in the membership procedures The document signed Sunday will guide Bulgaria and North Macedonia through resolving the disagreements. “For us it’s a historic opportunity that after 17 years of candidate status the Republic of North Macedonia gets the opportunity to start accession negotiations with the European Union,” Osmani told reporters. On Saturday, 68 lawmakers in North Macedonia’s 120-member assembly voted in favour of a motion to let the government back a framework for negotiations offered by the EU. By approving the EU proposal, “we remain on the only road to which nobody offered an alternative,” Prime Minister Dimitar Kovacevski had said on Thursday at the start of a debate that lasted for three days. “We’re starting to quickly move and change the country in the process of negotiations.” The deal may allow North Macedonia to hold its first intergovernmental conference with the EU — the formal start of negotiations — “within the next few days,” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told lawmakers in Skopje. The US state department welcomed the Saturday’s vote. “We recognise the difficult tradeoffs considered in this compromise, which acknowledges and respects North Macedonia’s cultural identity and the Macedonian language,” Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in an e-mailed statement. – Bloomberg The US and Russian space agencies have agreed to resume having crew members ride to the International Space Station on each others’ rockets, Nasa said on Friday. The arrangement with Roscosmos will send an integrated crew to the space station in September, Nasa said in an e-mailed news release. Crews shared rides during the US space shuttle programme that ended in 2011. “Flying integrated crews ensures there are appropriately trained crew members on board the station for essential maintenance and spacewalks,” Nasa said in an e-mailed statement. Tension following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine threatened to extend to space cooperation. In April the then-head of Roscosmos said Russia would pull out of the space station in response to Western sanctions. Nasa Administrator Bill Nelson said that wasn’t the case. On Friday, the Russian official who spoke of withdrawing from the station was replaced as general director of Roscosmos. A US astronaut will join a launch September 21 on the Soyuz MS-22 spacecraft from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. A cosmonaut will join a mission in September on SpaceX Crew-5 from Kennedy Space Center in Florida, Nasa said. Five space agencies — from Canada, Europe, Japan, the US and Russia — operate the station, and none can operate there without the cooperation of the others, Nasa said. – Bloomberg H&M AB decided to start winding down its operations in Russia, having halted all sales in the country in March after Russia’s attack on Ukraine. The Swedish fashion retailer expects to book costs of 2-billion kronor ($190m or R3.23bn) from the process, of which about 1-billion kronor will have a cash flow impact, it said in a statement on Monday. It plans to reopen physical stores in Russia for a limited period of time to sell remaining inventory. “After careful consideration, we see it as impossible given the current situation to continue our business in Russia,” CEO Helena Helmersson said. – Bloomberg British military intelligence said on Monday that Russia has used the private military contractor Wagner to reinforce its frontline forces in the Ukraine conflict. Wagner is lowering its recruitment standards and hiring convicts and formerly blacklisted individuals, potentially impacting Russian military effectiveness, the ministry of defence said in an intelligence update. – Reuters Russian defence minister Sergei Shoigu has instructed the military to prioritise destroying Ukraine's long-range missile and artillery weapons, the defence ministry said on Monday. Kyiv says it has carried out a string of successful strikes on 30 Russian logistics and ammunitions hubs, using several multiple launch rocket systems recently supplied by the West. – Reuters Canada sent a turbine for the Nord Stream gas pipeline to Germany by plane on July 17 after repair work had been completed, Kommersant newspaper reported on Monday, citing people familiar with the situation. It will take another five to seven days for the turbine to reach Russia if there are no problems with logistics and customs, the daily said. – Reuters Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy issued executive orders late on Sunday dismissing the State Security Service head and the prosecutor-general. The orders dismissing domestic security chief Ivan Bakanov, a childhood friend of Zelenskiy, and prosecutor-general Iryna Venediktova, who leads the effort to prosecute Russian war crimes in Ukraine, were published on the president's official website. No reason was immediately given for the sackings. - Reuters Russia is preparing for the next stage of its offensive in Ukraine, a Ukrainian military official said, after Moscow said its forces would step up military operations in "all operational areas". As Western deliveries of long-range arms begin to help Ukraine on the battlefield, Russian rockets and missiles have pounded cities in strikes that Kyiv says have killed dozens in recent days." It is not only missile strikes from the air and sea," Vadym Skibitskyi, a spokesman for Ukrainian military intelligence, said late on Saturday. "We can see shelling along the entire line of contact, along the entire front line. There is an active use of tactical aviation and attack helicopters." - Reuters