Popular musician Kgaogelo "Master KG" Moagi has responded to a summons issued against him and his entertainment company Open Mic Productions for alleged copyright infringement. In court papers filed at the high court in Pretoria last month, and seen by TshisaLIVE,  musician Presley Lebogang "Biblos" Ledwaba and Ntimela Chris " Charmza the DJ" Chauke claimed to have created Jerusalema. It further states that Master KG allegedly invited both Charmza The DJ and Nomcebo Zikode to his recording studio to work on a new song, only to instead record what would become Jerusalema. It alleged the star has since performed and profited off the song in alleged violation of Biblos and Charmza The DJs copyrights. Responding to news of the summons, Master KG suggested his accusers were clueless. "They can't even spell my name well because they don't know f**oll. I am looking forward to you reporting the outcome of the case if there is going to be any". Open Mic Productions also dismissed the claims, labelling them "defamatory and vexatious". "It is inappropriate to pass allegations as facts – allegations which are not yet tested in court. The appropriate thing to do is to wait until such time that Biblos and DJ Charmza take the stand to speak to their case and Open Mic will have an opportunity to disprove the claims made by them." the company said. Nomcebo, who was out of the country at the time of publishing this article, was not available to speak. A spokesperson from Adams & Adams Attorneys said they wanted what was allegedly due to their clients, claiming that Master KG and Open Mic had wrongly profited from the success of the song. "Our clients want their creative contributions made to the song and the recording to be recognized, and for their fair share of earnings generated to be allocated to them finally. "To date, earnings have been consumed by Master KG and Open Mic and their distributors, while the true originators and key creative contributors without whom the song would not even have existed, have cruelly been cut out of the remuneration chain from the get-go, and they are not even recognized as creative contributors to Jerusalema to this day."