ANC delegates attending day two of the ninth elective conference in KwaZulu-Natal will have to choose from 10 nominated officials when they cast their votes for new leaders on Saturday. The nominees include Sihle Zikalala and Mdumiseni Ntuli, who are hoping to make a comeback on the list of  five leaders. Zikalala will defend his position as provincial chair against Sboniso Duma, while Bheki Mtolo and Mdumiseni Mtolo will lock horns for the job of provincial secretary. For deputy secretary, Simpho Hlomuka and Nontembeko Boyce's names will appear on the ballot paper. The name of beleaguered eThekwini politician Zandile Gumede was initially raised for the position of treasurer. However, a member from her region told the delegates she would abide by the step-aside resolution and not stand for election. Nomusa Dube, who was nominated from the floor, failed to meet the threshold. Ambitious businessman Sandile Zungu, who was nominated for chair, “duly declined” his nomination. Two names were then raised from the floor for the position of provincial treasurer, Jomo Sibiye and Ntuthuko Mahlaba. Both accepted. “These are the 10 candidates, but you will be voting for five,” the electoral commission official said. Conference convener and national executive committee (NEC) member Nomafa Cawe began the nomination process by explaining to delegates that the conference was not just about electing leadership. “It’s also the biggest political school,” she said. “We want delegates that are here to go out better than those delegates who are not here.” She said the regions were supposed to give the NEC names of people  to be observers, but only three regions submitted names. After outlining the rules for the nomination process, Cawe disbanded the outgoing PEC and said the organisational and treasurer's reports had not been adopted. This caused debate among delegates, some of whom   argued that the reports should be discussed while others thought that  could be done after the nomination process. Zikalala reminded delegates that they had agreed to suspend the discussion for later in the day. The conference is continuing, with voting expected to take place on Saturday night. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.