Germany should contribute towards the costs of France's nuclear arsenal as the threat of nuclear war with Russia looms over Europe, German political veteran Wolfgang Schaeuble said in an interview published on Saturday. "Now that Putin's accomplices are threatening a nuclear strike every day, one thing is clear to me: we need nuclear deterrence at the European level as well," Schaeuble, a former finance minister who has served as a member of the German parliament for five decades, told the Welt am Sonntag newspaper. France has such weapons, he said, adding: "In our own interest, we Germans must make a financial contribution to the French nuclear force in return for a joint nuclear deterrent." The conservative, who has long been a passionate supporter of European integration, became a European household name during the 2012 eurozone debt crisis, when fans hailed him as a guardian of fiscal rectitude even as opponents accused him of imposing damaging austerity on Greece and other indebted countries. Asked whether his proposal would give Berlin a say on using nuclear weapons, the former conservative minister said France and Germany would have to come to an agreement as neighbours and Nato partners. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has triggered the most serious crisis in relations between Moscow and the West since the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis, when many people feared the world was on the brink of nuclear war. France — one of three Nato members with nuclear weapons, alongside the US and UK — has around 300 nuclear warheads in its arsenal, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI). – Reuters Russian President Vladimir Putin may not be allowed to participate in a planned state funeral for former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe should he decide he wants to attend, Sankei reported, citing several unnamed officials. The Japanese government is considering refusing Putin’s participation because his entry to the Asian country has been effectively banned following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the newspaper said in its Saturday edition. It’s unlikely, however, that the Russian leader wants to attend the event, a senior Japanese government official was quoted in the report as saying. Japan will inform foreign governments of its plan to hold the funeral on September 27 and ask whether they want to take part in it, the report said.Japan has imposed a series of sanctions on Russia, while providing non-lethal military equipment to Ukraine in recent months. – Bloomberg Russia and Ukraine signed a landmark deal on Friday to unblock grain exports from Black Sea ports and ease an international food crisis while the US pledged more military support five months into the invasion. The White House announced fresh support of around $270m (R4.55bn) to Kyiv, including $100m (R1.68bn) for drones, and is also doing preliminary work on whether to send fighter aircraft, although it said that would not happen in the near term. Fighting rages on in Ukraine's east. In a sign of how far away peace remains, Russian and Ukrainian representatives declined to sit at the same table and avoided shaking hands at the grain agreement ceremony in Istanbul. The US is exploring whether it can send US-made fighter jets to Ukraine, a White House spokesperson told reporters on Friday as the conflict with Russia enters its  sixth month and fighting rages in eastern Ukraine. While the Biden administration was making preliminary explorations into the feasibility of potentially providing the jets to Ukraine, the move is not something that would be done immediately, White House spokesperson John Kirby told reporters in a briefing. "It's not something that would be executed in the near-term." Such a move would be a major increase in US support for Ukraine in its battle against Russia. So far the US has provided $8.2bn in security aid for Ukraine. Kirby also disclosed details of the latest US arms package for Ukraine, which totalled $270m to aid in its defence against Russian aggression, including $100m for drones. The package, authorised by US President Joe Biden, will allow Kiev to acquire 580 of privately held AEVEX Aerospace LLC's Phoenix Ghost unmanned aerial vehicles, Kirby said. The package includes another tranche of up to around $175m for other defence aid, a separate White House memo said.It would include more high mobility artillery rocket systems (HIMARS) and other weapons that Ukrainians are using on the battlefield, US secretary of state Antony Blinken said in a statement. The additional US funding comes as Ukraine seeks to fend off Moscow as the worst conflict in Europe since World War 2  continued into its  sixth month. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy this week said his forces could inflict major damage on Russia as Kyiv leans on Western weapons in planned efforts to launch a counterattack and recapture territory. – Reuters The Baltic state of Lithuania has lifted a ban on the rail transport of sanctioned goods into and out of the Russian territory of Kaliningrad, Russia's RIA news agency said on Friday. The EU last week said the transit ban only affected road, not rail, transit, and Lithuania should therefore allow Russia to ship concrete, wood and alcohol across EU territory to the exclave. Lithuania had stopped Russia from sending sanctioned goods via rail to Kaliningrad in June, triggering an outcry from Moscow and a promise of swift retaliation. RIA cited Mantas Dubauskas, spokesperson for the state railway company, as saying it had informed customers they could ship goods once again. "It is possible that some goods will be transported today," RIA quoted him as telling Lithuanian television. Separately, Tass news agency cited a Kaliningrad government official as saying 60 wagons of cement would soon be shipped into the exclave. Kaliningrad is sandwiched between Poland and Lithuania and cut off from the rest of Russia. Russian officials said the ban could have affected up to half of all cargo shipments to Kaliningrad, though Lithuania said only around 15% would be hit. – Reuters Ukraine has around $10bn (R168.35bn) worth of grain available for sale in the wake of a deal signed with Russia to unblock supplies and will also have a chance to sell the current harvest, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said on Friday. "This is another demonstration that Ukraine can withstand the war," he said in a late-night address.Russia and Ukraine signed a landmark deal on Friday to reopen Ukrainian Black Sea ports for grain exports, raising hopes that an international food crisis aggravated by the Russian invasion can be eased. "Approximately 20-million tons of last year's grain harvest will be exported. There will also be a chance to sell this year's harvest ... at the moment we have about $10bn worth of grains available," said Zelenskyy. The deal, brokered by the UN and Turkey, was a chance to prevent a global food catastrophe that could cause chaos in many countries, he said. "There may be some provocations on the part of Russia, attempts to discredit Ukrainian and international efforts," said Zelenskyy. "But we trust the United Nations." – Reuters