The community of Protea Glen Ext 22 in Soweto has clubbed together to ensure  Eskom infrastructure in their area is protected from vandalism  and theft. This follows  cable theft  last Sunday, leaving some   community members without electricity for three days. About 120 houses in six streets were affected. Community member  Mdududzi Hadebe told TimesLIVE  they saw the need to protect their electricity power box after cables were  stolen during load-shedding last Sunday. “We had load-shedding between 8pm and 10pm. We were surprised  our power was not restored after the schedule but  could see  other houses in the area had power,” he said. They  logged calls with Eskom but their power was only restored on Wednesday. He said community members noticed  tampering on the box, and it looked like cables were stolen. “Eskom technicians  fixing the problem confirmed  cables were stolen and that is when we realised we need to come up with a solution to protect the infrastructure, because we are the ones who suffer when cables are stolen.” Hadebe said community members  held a meeting, and it was agreed  they need to build a structure around the box which will be locked to stop  further theft and vandalism. “We  agreed  each household should contribute R50, but some were reluctant , so we  increased the contribution to R100,” he said. The building of the structure started on Wednesday nigh. “We had load-shedding the same night between 8pm and 10pm and we were worried  the thieves might come again. We decided men in the area would   camp at the power box during load-shedding while the structure was built. We didn’t want to take  chances.” Braving  cold winter nights, Hadebe said they used tyres to make a fire to keep warm while  thestructure was installed. Hadede said men  did this from Wednesday until Saturday night, when the structure was  completed. The structure is locked and he said Eskom knows about the move. “We have told Eskom  where they will find the keys should they need to access the box for maintenance.” He said there is  money left from their contributions and  this will be used to buy barbed wire to put on top of the structure. “We are pleased  we were able to do this in  a short  time and  believe this will stop criminals  accessing our box.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.