The ANC has given its integrity commission (IC) six months to  deal with party leaders and members implicated in the more than 5,000-word   report  on state capture by  chief justice Raymond Zondo. ANC state capture task team chairperson Jeff Radebe said on Wednesday about 200 ANC leaders  had been  implicated  so far in the segment of the report his  team has  processed. More  cadres  were expected to be  implicated once the "Radebe task team" has concluded studying the report. Those implicated are advised to present themselves before the  IC within two months from June 22 when the final instalment of the  report was released. The  committee, to which  ANC leaders accused of  corrupt activities  have to report, must  deal with those implicated  within six months,  when the party convenes its  elective conference in December. “Individuals implicated in the commission's report must immediately take the initiative and present themselves to the integrity commission within two months,” said Radebe. “This is in line with the resolution of the ANC 54th national conference, which resolved to ‘demand that every cadre accused of, or reported to be involved in corrupt practices, accounts to the integrity commission immediately or face disciplinary committee processes'." The  policy conference  this weekend  is expected to  debate matters relating to state capture and corruption, including  the  meaning of "state capture". There are differing views on this within  ANC structures, despite the party having resolved at the Nasrec conference to vote for the establishment of the  commission, which answered this question. Many ANC leaders continue to  voice individual  views on what they perceive to be state capture. Newly-elected Gauteng  chairperson Panyaza Lesufi — in DJ Sbu’s The Hustlers’ Corner podcast — said state capture was far bigger than the Gupta family  who ransacked state  entities during  Jacob Zuma's presidency. The ANC's  newly-elected  KwaZulu-Natal executive  has   attacked the state capture report,  saying it  is a political tool to target the former president and circumvent constitutional powers of the executive. Radebe said all views  were welcome and  the policy conference  would formulate a  definition. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.