One of the parents of a police officer charged with the murder of his wife  says he deserves to be in jail. This emerged in the Camperdown magistrate’s court on Monday during the bail application of Sgt Mthokozisi Nene, 44. Nene, stationed at Inchanga police station, is alleged to have shot his schoolteacher wife Thobeka Nene, 41, on June 23 in the garage of their  home in Inchanga. Investigating officer Capt Bathabile Mdladla  testified on Wednesday last week that Nene should not be granted bail for the safety of  witnesses — some of whom are known to the him — as well as that of the mother of the deceased and their children. During cross-examination by defence attorney Sizwe Cele on Monday, Mdladla told the court  Nene had provided her with his parents’ address in KwaNyuswa. The accused's home had been torched  after the murder. Mdladla said  his parents said they could not accommodate him there. “I spoke to his mother who said they were sick so they wouldn’t be able to ensure  he abides by his bail conditions. She said they were not willing to live with him. He deserved to go to jail.” Mdladla also revealed that Nene is still under investigation by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate for the murder of  a colleague in 2019. Nene had also been charged with murder in 2014 but was later cleared. Cele said the point about his children and the deceased’s mother being scared were irrelevant in his client's bid for bail because they were not witnesses in this case. As in previous court appearances, there was a huge crowd calling for Nene not to be granted bail. Ragini Moodley, the SA Democratic Teachers Union gender convener  in the Mzi Mthembu region where the deceased came from, told TimesLIVE  the union was opposing bail. “If this court is going to rule, it must rule in favour of the community, the children, the state and the citizens at large.” The matter was postponed  to Friday. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.