It has been a year since civil unrest, looting and criminality gripped parts of KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng, with South Africans still trying to pick up the pieces. The violence and looting broke out after days of protests in KwaZulu-Natal linked to the incarceration of former president Jacob Zuma, and quickly spread to parts of Gauteng. The unrest left 354 people dead, communities in ruins, and cost billions in damage. TimesLIVE has reflected on the unrest and life in the aftermath: LISTEN | The July riots, a year later, but no justice for the 237 people murdered The deaths  during the unrest paint a horrific picture of bodies piling up in government mortuaries  after many were murdered  during those dark eight days of looting and protests, with police often nowhere to be found. EDITORIAL | How can hundreds of people be murdered and no-one held accountable? “If anything proves our lives are cheap, it must be the callousness with which those who took part in what we refer to as the July riots were killed and the subsequent lack of accountability”. Family of teen ‘killed by cop’ don’t believe they will see justice The family of Ntando Ndlovu, 14, killed at Pietermaritzburg’s Southgate shopping centre, allegedly by a police officer, don’t believe they will ever receive justice. Ntando lived with his grandmother Margaret Thusi and his elder brother S’bonelo in France township, 10km outside the city. On the morning of July 8 last year, Thusi, who works in rural Thornville for a fresh produce supplier, said she left Ntando in S’bonelo’s care. July riots shop explosion: some say four died, some say six, but others say more On the morning of July 12 2021 a crowd in Umzimkhulu, about 160km southwest of Durban, gathered at the entrance of the town to loot businesses. Their main target was the Umzimkhulu Mall. Their plan was thwarted. The mall was protected by other members of the community and  heavily-armed taxi bosses. The crowd had no choice but to look at other stores in the vicinity. One year after Ramaphosa’s addresses on July unrest, what has changed? It has been nearly a year since President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the nation on the devastating public violence, looting and criminality that gripped parts of KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. In one address, Ramaphosa pledged to restore calm and authorised the deployment of the military to help police. As we reflect on life a year after the unrest, here are  claims and promises made by Ramaphosa during his addresses. 5 names in  the spotlight at the time From former president Jacob Zuma to a Woolworths looter, a very expensive couch and a community member who would go on to  greater fame. Here are five names  in the spotlight during the unrest: Were citizens the real heroes? Will there be another uprising? What you said about the July 2021 unrest As we watched the violence unfold and heard the promises of action that would be taken against the rioters and instigators, we asked you what you thought of the unrest. Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.