The Kremlin on Friday said it would increase gas supplies to Europe if a turbine for the Nord Stream 1 pipeline currently being serviced in Canada was returned. Reuters reported on Thursday that Ukraine was opposed to Canada returning the turbine to Russia's Gazprom, arguing that it would violate sanctions imposed after Russia's deployment of its armed forces to Ukraine. Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov dismissed claims that Russia was using oil and gas to exert political pressure. He said a maintenance shutdown of Nord Stream 1 planned for this month was a regular, scheduled event, and that no one was "inventing" any repairs. — Reuters Russia has used only a small portion of its potential in its "special military operation" in Ukraine, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Friday. President Vladimir Putin said on Thursday that Russia had barely started in Ukraine and dared the West to try to defeat it on the battlefield, while insisting that Moscow was still open to the idea of peace talks. "Russia's potential is so great that only a small portion of it is being used in the special operation," Peskov said on a conference call with reporters. — Reuters Ukraine's foreign minister on Friday accused Russia of playing "hunger games" and said it has "no place at any international fora", during a virtual address to a G20 meeting of his counterparts in Bali. Dmytro Kuleba said the international community had no right to allow Russia to blackmail the world with high energy prices, hunger and security threats, according to a statement from his office. — Reuters Russia's defence ministry said in a briefing on Friday that Russian forces had destroyed two British-supplied Harpoon anti-ship missile systems in Ukraine's Odesa region overnight. Reuters was unable to independently verify the claim. The US-designed missile systems are one of several weapons supplied to Ukraine by Nato countries since Russia sent its armed forces into the country on February 24. — Reuters An Indian cement maker’s recent purchase of Russian coal using yuan involved India’s biggest private lender, HDFC Bank, according to an invoice seen by Reuters and a source, as more details emerge of the kind of trade that could blunt Western sanctions against Moscow. There is no suggestion that the purchase, the particulars of which have not previously been reported, in any way breaches sanctions imposed on Russia in the wake of its invasion of Ukraine. But the document shows one way in which Russia could continue to sell commodities abroad without settling in US dollars despite restrictions aimed at freezing it out of financial markets. G20 host Indonesia urged foreign ministers of the group on Friday to help end the war in Ukraine, as Russia's top diplomat accused the West of scuppering a chance to tackle global economic issues with "frenzied" criticism of the conflict. The G20 ministers' meeting in Bali has been overshadowed by the war and its impact on the global economy, with top officials from Western countries and Japan stressing it would not be a "business as usual" event. Shouts of "When will you stop the war?" and "Why don't you stop the war?" were heard as Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov shook hands with his Indonesian counterpart Retno Marsudi as he arrived for the meeting. Retno had called on the G20 to "find a way forward" to address global challenges and said the repercussions of the war, including rising energy and food prices, would hit low-income countries the hardest. "It is our responsibility to end the war sooner than later and settle our differences at the negotiating table, not at the battlefield," Retno said at the opening of talks. – Reuters Russian deputy foreign minister Sergei Ryabkov said on Friday the United States had asked that US fighters detained in Ukraine be recognised as combatants, the Interfax news agency reported. – Reuters The Federation Council, the upper chamber of Russia's parliament, on Friday barred British diplomats, including the ambassador, from accessing its building, Russian news agencies reported. – Reuters Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov on Friday dismissed the what he cast as the West's "frenzied" criticism of the war in Ukraine at a G20 meeting, scolding Russia's rivals for scuppering a chance to tackle global economic issues. Host Indonesia urged the G20 to help end the war in Ukraine at the meeting, which put some of the staunchest critics of Russia's invasion in the same room as Moscow's top diplomat. "Aggressors', 'invaders', 'occupiers' — we heard a lot of things today," Lavrov told reporters. He said the West's discussion "strayed almost immediately, as soon as they took the floor, to the frenzied criticism of the Russian Federation in connection with the situation in Ukraine". "During the discussion, Western partners avoided following the mandate of the G20, from dealing with issues of the world economy," Lavrov said. Russia says its "special military operation" is intended to degrade the Ukrainian military, root out people it calls dangerous nationalists, and prevent the US from using Ukraine to threaten Russia. Ukraine and its Western backers say Russia is engaged in an imperial-style land grab. They say Russia has no justification for the war. Russia says the West's attempt to isolate Moscow with the severest sanctions in modern times is akin to a declaration of economic war and that Russia will from now on turn towards China, India and other powers outside the West. Lavrov said that if the West wanted Ukraine to defeat Russia then there was nothing to talk about with the West, which he said was preventing Kyiv from seeking a peace deal. Shouts of "When will you stop the war?" and "Why don't you stop the war?" were heard as Lavrov shook hands with his Indonesian counterpart Retno Marsudi at the start of the meeting. Russian state television said an attempt to boycott Russia at the G20 had failed spectacularly and offended Indonesia. – Reuters Russia is ready to negotiate with Ukraine and Turkey about grain but it is unclear when such talks might take place, foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said on Friday. – Reuters Russia is likely concentrating equipment on front line in the direction of Siversk, about 8km  west of the current Russian front line, Britain's defence ministry said on Friday. Russian forces are likely pausing to replenish before undertaking new offensive operations in the Donetsk Oblast, the Ministry of Defence said in a Twitter update. The ministry said that there is a realistic possibility that Russia's immediate tactical objective will be Siversk, as its forces attempt to advance towards its most likely operational goal of the Sloviansk-Kramatorsk urban area. - Reuters