It has been nearly one year since President Cyril Ramaphosa  addressed the nation on the devastating public violence, looting and criminality that gripped parts of KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. Ramaphosa delivered three addresses over several days while the security forces battled to restore order. The violence and looting broke out after days of protests in KwaZulu-Natal linked to the incarceration of former president Jacob Zuma. In one  address, Ramaphosa pledged to restore calm and authorised the deployment of the  military to help  police. As we reflect on life a year after the unrest, here are some claims and promises made by Ramaphosa during his  addresses: POLITICAL MOTIVES AND OPPORTUNISTIC ACTS OF CRIMINALITY “At the beginning of this unrest, there may have been some people who sought to agitate for violence and disorder along ethnic lines. We know  the majority of our people have out of principle refused to be mobilised along these lines. “However, what we are witnessing  are opportunistic acts of criminality, with groups of people instigating chaos merely as a cover for looting and theft.” THOSE INVOLVED IN ACTS OF VIOLENCE WILL BE ARRESTED AND PROSECUTED “Let me be clear: we will take action to protect every person in this country against the threat of violence, intimidation, theft and looting. “We will not hesitate to arrest and prosecute those who perpetrate these actions and will ensure  they face the full might of our law.” FOOD SHORTAGES AND JOB LOSSES “Shops have been looted and infrastructure destroyed. This means  our sick cannot get medication from pharmacies, food does not reach supermarket shelves and health workers cannot go to work. “These disruptions will cost lives by cutting off the supply chains that sustain our food, health and production systems. The path of violence, of looting and anarchy, leads only to more violence and devastation. It leads to more poverty, more unemployment and more loss of innocent life. “This afternoon, ministers and senior officials in the economic and the security clusters met with Business Unity SA to take stock of the situation and to develop coordinated actions. We have agreed to work together to ensure the safety of drivers, cashiers, patients and customers. “We have agreed to share information and resources to ensure  we restore key supply chains.” BRING IN THE ARMY AND STRENGTHEN POLICE “As commander-in-chief of the SA Defence Force, I have today authorised the deployment of military personnel in support of the operations of the police service. “The National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure, known as NatJOINTS, has intensified deployments in all the affected areas in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. “The police service is putting measures in place to call up operational members from leave and rest days to increase the presence of law enforcement personnel on the ground.” GOVERNMENT TO MEET WITH COMMUNITIES TO PROMOTE STABILITY “We are making arrangements for government leaders and public representatives as part of their responsibilities to meet with leaders in  communities to promote stability. “As part of our ongoing engagement with key sectors of society, I will be meeting with leaders of political parties to discuss the current situation. “We are called upon, wherever we may be, to remain calm, to exercise restraint, and to resist any attempts to incite violence, create panic or fuel divisions.” PATH OF HEALING, RECONSTRUCTION AND RENEWAL “We have begun a process of healing, reconstruction and renewal. We have set our country on a path of progress and recovery. We cannot allow a few people among us to threaten this collective effort. “We will protect our constitutional democracy so that we can consolidate our gains. We will reject violence and chaos  so that we can move forward. Let me repeat: we are building up, not shutting down. “We will not be deterred, as South Africans, from the task ahead of us.” PODCAST | The bloodiest days in SA's democratic history Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.