President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday evening revealed  African Union (AU) chair Macky Sall will visit Russian President Vladimir Putin to discuss the devastating impact of the conflict in  Ukraine. “We realised that [the Ukraine-Russia conflict] it is going to have an impact on our own continent as well. It was then decided  the chair of our union should go on invitation to Russia to  meet with the president  to have a discussion,” said Ramaphosa. He was addressing the annual Black Business Council (BBC) summit dinner at the Gallagher Convention Centre in Midrand, Gauteng. The two-day summit brought together government, civil society and business leaders to deliberate on socio-economic opportunities and challenges  facing the country. Ramaphosa told guests, who included ambassadors from Venezuela, Cuba and Russia  and UDM leader Bantu Holomisa, that the  conflict in Ukraine, which started in February, has added to the challenges driving up fuel and food prices and intensifying geopolitical tensions. The effects  were still being felt today, he said. “Rising prices and the cost of living have seen the Central Bank  respond by raising the cost of money and debt. This will particularly have a damaging impact on African and developing countries, which are most vulnerable to food and energy insecurity,” he said. Ramaphosa, who has been engaging world leaders on the matter, told delegates  the  AU bureau sat recently and discussed the conflict  in  Ukraine. He said the circumstances  the world is confronted with  will have lasting consequences for the organisations of work, patterns of trade, investment flows and  development  aspirations of countries in the continent and  global south. On the local front, Ramaphosa said: “There are times when I think, as South Africans, we do not fully understand the economy of our country, how it functions and  its history, how it came to be the type of economy  it is. Sometimes I get the sense  we do not  understand what drives this economy.” Despite this, Ramaphosa said when he listens to the leadership of the BBC and Black Management Forum, he gets a sense  there was a keen understanding of the economy. The voice of the BBC is not just a voice of black business, he said,  but was the voice of “a nation that continues to want to free itself from the bondage of discrimination and  dispossession and also from  poverty,  unemployment,  extreme inequality and a grave injustice that was visited upon our people when colonialists descended upon our country and their apartheid rulers took power and started a  wholesale process of oppression and discrimination.” Ramaphosa said the BBC and government had a shared vision of creating a “new economy” in which all South Africans can play a meaningful role and have equal opportunity and benefit. This monumental task, he said, was being embarked upon at a time of great uncertainty in the world and global economy with the disruption of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The devastating effects of the pandemic are being worsened by the impact of climate change on our communities and economy. “While there are great challenges there are great opportunities. The African free trade area came into operation in the midst of the pandemic. It is the most potent instrument  the continent has ever had to drive economic and social renaissance.” Ramaphosa said this is what the continent needs to capitalise on, particularly SA, which considers itself the gateway to the  continent. “We are the industrial powerhouse of this continent, and coming into force of the Africa free trade area means  we are boosted. As South Africans, our economic fortunes can be put on a much higher pedestal. It has great potential if we seize the opportunity,” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.