Murder accused Jeremy Sias made every effort in the Cape Town high court to hide his face from news photographers. Sias  is on trial for the murder of horsewoman  29-year-old Meghan Cremer, who was killed in August 2019. He was a farm labourer on  a horse farm in  Philippi, Cape Town, where Cremer was renting a cottage and  stabled two horses. The state  alleges Sias entered Cremer’s cottage after 5pm on August 3 2019 and strangled her using a soft blue ribbon. Sias  allegedly placed Cremer’s body in the boot of her white Toyota Auris and drove  to Olieboom Road in  Philippi, where he  dumped her body in the bushes. He is alleged to have stolen Cremer’s bank cards, using them at multiple shops over the next two days. On August 5,  Sias allegedly enlisted the help of acquaintance  Charles Daniels to help  sell Cremer’s car. Daniels  allegedly asked Shiraaz Jafta to  help  sell  the vehicle. The two men took the  car and removed the number plates, but they were  arrested by police later that  day. Cremer’s body was found  on August 8 after Sias pointed her out to police on Olieboom Road. She had been  tied up with ribbons around her wrists and ankles. Sias has pleaded not guilty. The first witness called by the state was Meghan’s mother Gillian Cremer. Wearing a white blouse and blue scarf, Gillian testified that on August 3 2019 she was concerned when her WhatsApp message did not get through  to Meghan’s cellphone after 5pm. The next morning she tried to send a message again but it  also did not go through and her attempted calls  went straight to voicemail. She spoke  to Meghan every day so her silence was  strange. Meghan’s  employers told Gillian  Meghan did not  arrive for work on Sunday.  As Gillian  lives in Knysna she phoned  farm manager and friend of Meghan, Thomas Mbalula,  who opened a missing-person case  at the  Philippi police station on August 4. On August 8, Gillian received a call saying the police had found a body near the  farm. “They said I needed to go identify her at the mortuary.  We could not confirm it was Meghan due to the extent of the injuries to her face. We told them about the identifying scars  we knew she had and asked them to check her left hand for a ring she had worn from when she was 15 years old. The ring was still there, so we confirmed it was Meghan,” said Gillian. Mbalula  was the second witness called. He recalled the events on the day she went missing. “On Saturday evening I tried to contact Meghan after I noticed her  puppy was roaming around the farm. She would never leave the puppy on its own. I took the dog and went to her cottage door, which was closed with the security gate locked, and her car was gone.  I started phoning her to find out where she was.” He confirmed that the next day he filed a missing-person report with SAPS in  Philippi. “I know the accused — Jeremy Sias. He was employed at the farm as a labourer and he was responsible for maintenance and upkeep  on the farm. He was working on the farm on August 3,” said Mbalula. The case is set to last three weeks. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.