Members of the World Health Organisation's European region passed a resolution on Tuesday that could result in the closure of Russia's regional office and the suspension of meetings in the country in response to its invasion of Ukraine. The special session of the European region passed the resolution, supported by Ukraine and the EU, with 43 in favour and three against (Russia, Belarus and Tajikistan) and two abstentions. The Russian military's failure to seize the Ukrainian capital was inevitable because in the preceding years they had never directly faced a powerful enemy, according to a former mercenary with the Kremlin-linked Wagner Group who fought alongside the Russian army. Marat Gabidullin took part in Wagner Group missions on the Kremlin's behalf in Syria and in a previous conflict in Ukraine, before deciding to go public about his experience inside the secretive private military company. He quit the Wagner group in 2019, but several months before Russia launched the invasion on Feb. 24 Gabidullin, 55, said he received a call from a recruiter who invited him to go back to fighting as a mercenary in Ukraine. RuTube, Russia's answer to YouTube, was crippled for a second day on Tuesday by a cyber attack whose timing it linked to this week's anniversary celebrations of victory over Nazi Germany in World War 2. Usually packed with video content, RuTube's site is currently black, with a short message reading: “Attention! The site is undergoing technical work. The site was attacked. At the moment the situation is under control. User data has been saved.” The attack began on Monday, a major national holiday when Russia commemorated the Soviet victory over Adolf Hitler and President Vladimir Putin delivered a speech likening that struggle to the current war in Ukraine. “Someone really wanted to prevent RuTube from showing the Victory Day parade and celebratory fireworks,” RuTube said. “It is not a sin to remember the battles our guys won. The battle for RuTube continues.” Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko said on Tuesday that Moscow had agreed to help Minsk produce missiles, including one similar to Russia's Iskander, as it looks to beef up its military capabilities, the state-run Belta news agency reported. Lukashenko told a meeting of defence officials that events in Ukraine had demonstrated the importance of having troops with modern, highly effective weapons and supplies, stressing also the importance of logistics. Lukashenko said he won the support of Russian President Vladimir Putin at a recent meeting in Russia's Far East for people involved in missile production in Russia to take a look at Belarus' developments in that area. "We are creating a new missile," Belta quoted Lukashenko as saying. "A very effective missile similar to the Iskander model. There was full support. "Lukashenko said Putin had told Dmitry Rogozin, the head of Russia's space agency Roscosmos, to give Belarus the relevant support, Belta reported.Russia has used Iskander missiles during what it calls its "special operation" in Ukraine. Belarus is a close ally of Russia, but Lukashenko said in March that the Belarusian armed forces were not taking part in Moscow's operation and would not do so. Belta also cited Defence Minister Viktor Khrenin as saying that a second phase of spot troop checks was starting in Belarus, which he described as an adequate reaction to NATO exercises. Reuters Britain said on Tuesday it believed Russia was behind an operation targeting commercial communications company Viasat in Ukraine on Feb. 24, citing new British and American inteligence. "This is clear and shocking evidence of a deliberate and malicious attack by Russia against Ukraine which had significant consequences on ordinary people and businesses in Ukraine and across Europe," British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said in a statement. Reuters Russia was behind a massive cyberattack against a satellite internet network which took thousands of modems offline at the onset of the war in Ukraine, the European Union said in a statement on Tuesday. The attack against Viasat's KA-SAT network in late February took place just as Russian armour pushed into Ukraine. Reuters The European Union's top diplomat Josep Borrell said on Tuesday he hoped for a deal soon on an EU oil embargo on Russia, possibly for EU foreign ministers to agree. Foreign ministers are due to meet on Monday, May 16. Borrell said last week he could also call an emergency meeting of the ministers to sign off on the sanctions if they were ready, or to move negotiations forward. If EU ambassadors could not agree this week, he also said foreign ministers could try to break any deadlock, in a bid to win over reluctant states, particularly Hungary. The European Commission proposed the oil embargo on May 4. Reuters Ukraine said Russian forces were pummelling a steel works in Mariupol on Tuesday where a local official said at least 100 civilians were still holed up with the last fighters defending the strategic southern city. Earlier reports by Russian and Ukrainian officials had indicated that all civilians had been evacuated from the sprawling Azovstal plant after spending weeks cowering in shelters alongside the fighters. Mariupol, a port on the Sea of Azov, has endured the most destructive fighting of the war in Ukraine. Kyiv says it is likely that tens of thousands of people have been killed there since Russia's invasion on Feb. 24, and the Azovstal steel plant is the last part of the city still held by Ukrainian fighters. Asked if Russia would rule out a pre-emptive tactical nuclear strike on Ukraine, Russia's deputy foreign minister said on Tuesday that a decision on the possible use of nuclear weapons was clearly set out in Russia's military doctrine, RIA reported. “We have a military doctrine — everything is written there,” Alexander Grushko was quoted by state news agency RIA as saying. Russia's official military deployment principles allow for the use of nuclear weapons if they — or other types of weapons of mass destruction — are used against it, or if the Russian state faces an existential threat from conventional weapons. Germany is moving away from its plan to establish a strategic national coal reserve, sources from the government and industry told Reuters on Tuesday. The plan is no longer a priority for the Economy Ministry following a meeting to sound out utilities on the matter, they said. The original proposal was to have reserves for up to 90 days, according to government sources. The sources pointed to indications that Germany, the European Union's largest coal importer, would have enough coal available to it on the world market even after an EU boycott of imports from Russia was put in place. Reuters German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock arrived in Ukraine on Tuesday, the highest-ranking German government official to visit the country since Russia's invasion began on February 24. Her first stop was in the town of Bucha, near Kyiv, where Russian forces are accused of having committed attrocities. Moscow, which has repeatedly denied targeting civilians in the Ukraine war, has called allegations that its forces executed civilians in Bucha while they occupied the town a "monstrous forgery" aimed at denigrating the Russian army. Reuters Ukraine's central bank said on Tuesday it had increased its portfolio of domestic war bonds to 100 billion hryvnias ($3.39 billion) after buying a further 30 billion to help the government finance the budget amid the war with Russia. "Given the significant defence, humanitarian and social needs, the support of the budget by the National Bank remains a necessary measure in the context of the war unleashed by Russia," it said in a statement. Ukraine's finance minister said tax revenues covered only 54% of budget expenditures. Reuters WHO’s regional office for Europe discusses the impact of Russia's invasion on Ukraine's health system at a session in Geneva Ferrexpo Plc, a London-listed miner with operations in Ukraine, proposed to halve its dividend payout to shareholders on Tuesday, as it navigates the fallout of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The Swiss-headquartered company, the world's third largest exporter of iron ore pellets used to make steel, said its board of directors had proposed a final dividend of 6.6 cents per share, down from 13.2 cents a year earlier. Ferrexpo said in a statement that it was proposing the dividend in light of "continued market demand for forms of high grade iron ores and the resilience the Group has shown during Russia's invasion of Ukraine. "Shares of the FTSE 250 firm were up 2.7% at 141.40 pence in early trade. The dividend was, however, halved due to the changing "risk profile" for the company in 2022 due to the Russia-Ukraine conflict, a Ferrexpo spokesman said via phone. Its first-quarter iron ore pellet production had fallen 11% sequentially due to logistical and operational challenges from the conflict. The company has also paused projects with lesser potential for near-term growth. Ferrexpo's shares on the London Stock Exchange have fallen 45% since the conflict began in late February. Reuters French European Affairs Minister Clement Beaune said European Union members could reach a deal this week on the EU Commission's proposal to ban all oil imports from Russia. "I think we could strike a deal this week," Beaune told LCI television, adding that French President Emmanuel Macron was due to talk to Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban later in the day. Hungary is the most vocal critic of this planned embargo on Russian oil. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said on Monday she had made progress in talks with Viktor Orban on this project. Reuters The Nordic region's defence capabilities would be strengthened if Sweden and Finland joined NATO, allowing joint defence planning within the framework of the alliance, Sweden's defence minister told Swedish radio on Tuesday. "(If Sweden and Finland join NATO) there will be the effect that we use each others' strengths and advantages and fully complement each other and also carry out operational planning," Defence Minister Peter Hultqvist of the ruling Social Democrats said." If so, the effect will be that we become stronger together. This is something that can happen if we choose to join NATO," he told the public broadcaster. Sweden already has defence agreements with its Nordic neighbours. The Social Democrats will decide on May 15 whether to drop decades of opposition by the party to NATO membership, a move that would almost certainly lead to Sweden asking to join the 30-nation alliance. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has sparked a rethink of security policy in Sweden and Finland. The Finnish president, Sauli Niinisto, is this week expected to announce his support for an application. Hultqvist, a long-time sceptic towards Swedish NATO membership, declined to say in the interview what his current stance was. Denmark, Norway and Iceland are already members of NATO. Reuters Russian gas nominations via Ukraine to Europe stood at 97.5 million cubic metres (mcm) for Tuesday, down from 98.7 mcm the day before, the Interfax news agency reported, citing data from Ukraine's gas pipeline operator. Reuters DA leader John Steenhuisen on Monday defended his controversial visit to war-stricken Ukraine, saying he went there to represent peace-loving South Africans. Steenhuisen added it was important for him to get first-hand experience of the destruction caused by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The opposition leader visited Kyiv last week to meet various leaders and embark on a fact-finding trip regarding the extent of the effects of the war. Ukraine's president said on Monday that trade at the country's ports was at a standstill and urged the international community to take immediate steps to end a Russian blockade to allow wheat shipments and prevent a global food crisis. Volodymyr Zelensky made the comments after speaking to European Council President Charles Michel, who was visiting Odesa — the major Black Sea port for exporting agricultural products where missiles struck tourist sites and destroyed buildings on Monday. “For the first time in decades and decades, in Odesa there is no regular movement of the merchant fleet, there is no routine port work. This has probably never happened in Odesa since World War 2,” Zelensky said in a video address. The United States has seen indications that some Ukrainians are being moved to Russia against their will, Pentagon Spokesperson John Kirby said, calling the actions ‘unconscionable.’ The Eiffel Tower in Paris lit up in the national blue-and-yellow colors of Ukraine to show solidarity with the war-torn country and its people. US President Joe Biden signed into law S.3522, the 'Ukraine Democracy Defense Lend-Lease Act of 2022,' making it easier to export military equipment to Ukraine. Ukraine has surprised the world its resistance against Russia, it is being lauded almost everywhere but a pat on the back and supplying weapons are just not enough. Kyiv has been eyeing a seat at the European Union, however, it seems like that dream is decades away. A halt to Russian gas supplies to Germany would trigger a deep recession and cost half a million jobs, a senior economist said in an interview published on Tuesday, as Europe's biggest economy tries to cut Russian energy imports. Achim Truger, a member of Germany's Council of Economic Experts, said German industry a could suffer serious damage in the long term if Russian President Vladimir Putin decides to cut gas exports to Germany. "By most calculations, an end to gas supplies from Russia would trigger a deep recession. Half a million jobs could be lost," daily newspaper Rheinische Post quoted Truger as saying. Last month, Russia's Gazprom cut Poland and Bulgaria off from its gas for refusing to pay in roubles, and threatened to do the same to others, raising fears that it could take similar action against Germany. Russian gas accounted for 55% of Germany's imports last year, and Berlin has come under pressure to unwind a business relationship that critics says is helping to fund Russia's war in Ukraine. Truger also said it would take a long time for inflation in Germany to fall again. "Excessive inflation will continue well into 2023," he said. German inflation hit its highest level in more than four decades in April, pushed higher by a spike in the price of natural gas and mineral oil products since Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Reuters Russia is not planning to proactively close its embassies in Europe in response to unfriendly measures by the West and expansion of sanctions against Moscow, the RIA news agency reported on Tuesday, citing a deputy foreign minister. "This is not in our tradition," Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Grushko told RIA. "Therefore, we believe that the work of diplomatic representative offices is important." On Monday, Russia's ambassador to Poland was doused in a red substance by people protesting against the war in Ukraine as he went to lay flowers at the Soviet Military Cemetery in Warsaw to mark the 77th anniversary of the victory over Nazi Germany in World War Two. Moscow sent a "strong protest" note afterwards. Reuters US President Joe Biden said on Monday he is worried that Russian President Vladimir Putin does not have a way out of the Ukraine war, and Biden said he was trying to figure out what to do about that. Biden, speaking at a political fundraiser in a Washington suburb, said Putin had mistakenly believed the invasion of Ukraine would break up NATO and break up the European Union. Instead, the United States and many European countries have rallied to Ukraine's side. Russia's assault on Kyiv was beaten back in March by strong Ukrainian resistance. Russia, which calls the invasion "a special military operation," poured more troops into Ukraine for a huge offensive last month in the eastern part of the country but its gains have been slow. Biden said Putin is a very calculating man and the problem he worries about now is that the Russian leader "doesn't have a way out right now, and I'm trying to figure out what we do about that." Reuters A Ukrainian woman says a Russian soldier dragged her to an empty house and raped her. CNN's Sara Sidner reports the harrowing story of women who claim that both their homes and their bodies were violated in this war. In a highly anticipated Victory day speech, Russian President Vladimir Putin has defended his decision to invade Ukraine. Speaking at V-day parade, which commemorates the defeat of Nazis, Putin said that Russia was facing absolutely unacceptable threat.