Gift of the Givers  co-founder Zorah Bibi Sooliman graduated with a Master’s degree in counselling psychology from the University of KwaZulu-Natal on Monday. For her thesis, Sooliman examined the lived experiences of Muslim women in polygamous marriages in Durban and surrounding areas. While her husband, Dr Imtiaz Sooliman, is known for helping desperate people in disaster and conflict areas, Zorah has given women a sympathetic shoulder to cry on in the form of a counselling service. She established  the Gift of the Givers Careline aimed specifically for women in polygamous marriages who are “distraught and broken” by the actions of their husbands, Gift of the Givers said. The careline has grown immensely and now extends its free service to the  public  through telephone and face-to-face counselling. Zorah  has gathered the experiences of women who are struggling and intends to share this knowledge with the community, “particularly men and religious leaders,  to provide education to them and the community”. She has been at the forefront of the foundation since its inception. She and  Imtiaz founded Gift of Givers in the 1990s and she is still active in the foundation. The foundation lauded her for raising the couple's five children — four daughters and a son — while her husband travelled to  war zones and other areas of conflict for long periods delivering much-needed humanitarian aid. Sooliman said he was proud of his wife’s achievement. She describes herself as an advocate for women’s empowerment, independence and education. “We must use our abilities and skills to contribute to the communities we come from and make a difference in their lives,” she said. Sooliman advised other scholars to work hard, be disciplined, determined and keep focused on the end goal. “The road has been long, but I finally got here with the help of my children, my husband, friends, family, colleagues and, most of all, God,” she said. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.