For someone who believes in antique ideologies — from state control of the economy to racial nationalism — Cyril Ramaphosa speaks in very postmodern terms. Postmodernism is the philosophy that there is no scientific or historical truth; and CR certainly peppered his remarks last week on the war in Ukraine with lashings of this concept. Ukraine-born author Peter Pomerantsev titled his book on Vladimir Putin’s Russia Nothing is True and Everything is Possible. This is excellent shorthand for Ramaphosa’s remarks at the Union Buildings last week on the occasion of the visit here of German chancellor Olaf Scholz. Some 50 homes in the village of Demydiv remain partially submerged months after a dam was destroyed and the area flooded to stop Russian troops from advancing on Ukraine capital Kyiv, regional governor Oleksiy Kuleba said late on Saturday. The Ukrainian military blew up a dam on the river Irpin in February, sending water surging into the village and thousands of acres around it, flooding houses and fields, but preventing Russian tanks from reaching the capital city. "At this time, about 50 houses in the village of Demydiv remain flooded," Kuleba wrote in a post on the Telegram messaging app. "People are understanding of the situation. We, in turn, make every effort to resolve the issue." The village, whose history goes back a thousand years, had been partially evacuated after the start of the invasion, local media reported, but some residents have returned since Moscow shifted its offensive to east Ukraine. Over the weekend, Russian forces pummelled eastern towns in what the Kremlin calls its "special operation" to disarm Ukraine and protect it from fascists. Kyiv and Western countries dismiss this as a false pretext for a land grab. Reuters In his Africa Day message this week, the head of the African Union (AU) Commission, Moussa Faki Mahamat, lamented that the continent had become “the collateral victim of a distant conflict… between Russia and Ukraine”. He was referring to the economic hardships visited upon Africans by the war. Concurring, President Cyril Ramaphosa bemoaned the fact that “even those countries that are either bystanders or not part of the conflict are… going to suffer from the sanctions that have been imposed against Russia”. The word choices by Africa’s top bureaucrat, and by Ramaphosa, were more profound than they might have intended. Collateral damage, of course, refers to unintentional deaths and injuries among civilians. The lot of such victims is characterised by powerlessness. They have no choice about whether war is declared or whether the destruction and bloodletting are justified, and no say in how long the hostilities will continue. Russian forces have stepped up their assault on the Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk after claiming to have captured the nearby rail hub of Lyman, as Kyiv intensified calls for longer-range weapons from the West. Slow, solid Russian gains in recent days in eastern Ukraine's Donbas, comprising the Luhansk and Donetsk regions, point to a subtle momentum shift in the war, now in its fourth month. Invading forces appear close to seizing all of the Luhansk region, one of the more modest war goals the Kremlin set after abandoning its assault on the capital, Kyiv, in the face of Ukrainian resistance. Russia's defence ministry said on Saturday its troops and allied separatist forces were in full control of Lyman, the site of a railway junction west of the Siverskyi Donets River in the Donetsk. However, Ukraine's deputy defence minister, Hanna Malyar, said the battle for Lyman continued, the ZN.ua website reported. •  Russian forces have stepped up their assault on the Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk after claiming to have captured the nearby rail hub of Lyman, as Kyiv intensified calls for longer-range weapons from the West. •  Russia's defence ministry said its forces had taken full control of Lyman, west of Sievierodonetsk but Hanna Malyar, Ukraine's deputy defence minister, said the battle for Lyman continued, media reported. •  Russia also said it had used missile strikes to destroy Ukrainian command posts in Bakhmut and Soledar. Both towns are on an important road running southwest from Lysychansk and Sievierodonetsk. •  Luhansk's governor, Serhiy Gaidai, said on Friday Russian troops had entered Sievierodonetsk, the largest Donbas city still held by Ukraine. •  Gaidai said 90% of buildings in Sievierodonetsk were damaged with 14 high-rises destroyed in the latest shelling. •  Ukraine has started receiving Harpoon anti-ship missiles from Denmark and self-propelled howitzers from the United States, Ukrainian Defence Minister Oleksiy Reznikov said. •  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he expected good news this week on weapons supplies, without giving details. •  A senior pro-Russian official in the occupied Ukrainian region of Kherson told Reuters that nearby fighting could affect the timing of its formal bid to join Russia and a decision was likely "towards next year" • Russian President Vladimir Putin told the leaders of France and Germany in a phone call that Russia was willing to discuss ways to make it possible for Ukraine to resume shipments of grain from Black Sea ports, the Kremlin said. • British Prime Minister Boris Johnson told Zelenskiy that international partners were working intensively to find ways to resume the grain exports from Ukraine to avert a global food crisis. • A ship has entered the Ukrainian port of Mariupol for the first time since Russia completed its capture of the city to load metal and ship it east to Russia, TASS news agency reported. • The EU is seeking a deal to ban Russian oil deliveries by sea but not pipeline to win over Hungary. Zelenskiy has accused the EU of dithering. • French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz urged Putin to release the 2,500 Ukrainian defenders of the Azovstal steel plant detained by Russian forces, the Elysee palace said. • Ukrainian presidential adviser and peace talks negotiator Mykhailo Podolyak said any agreement with Russia cannot be trusted and Moscow can only be stopped in its invasion by force. • The Kremlin blamed Kyiv for stalled talks. • An EU summit on Monday and Tuesday could see divisions between members who want to take a hard line against Russia and those calling for a ceasefire. Reuters