The extended Covid-19 regulations have received mixed reactions, with trade union Solidarity going as far as instituting legal action. Solidarity said the health regulations published in the Government Gazette by health minister Joe Phaahla were unlawful and irrational. Solidarity CEO Dr Dirk Hermann said a legal letter had been issued to Phaahla in which the minister is requested to disclose how the decision on the regulations was reached. “The department of health’s dragging its heels in publishing the regulations led to the absurd situation where the  public did not know by  11pm last night (Wednesday) what would hit them the next morning. This is totally unacceptable and  has taken the country back to family meetings and  the immediate effect of lockdowns,” he said. “That the  government admits in the Government Gazette that it needed more time to consider all the input from the public, but is nonetheless gazetting the regulations, is an indication  the public comment process is regarded as a mere inconvenience by a government that would rather govern by dictate. “Public input is not just for the semblance of participation but must be considered. Government’s actions made a mockery of the public participation process.” Solidarity’s legal team is  considering  legal steps to challenge the  regulations. “The most draconic and worrying of the new regulations is  that the minister of health can arbitrarily decide to enact or withdraw them. This  means the minister can put the entire country into lockdown with no prior notice and no limits to this power. “The huge uncertainty this creates in several sectors of the economy will have major consequences if the regulations remain as is. No mention is made of preserving  healthcare capacity. The only criterium is to curb the spread of Covid-19. Thus, through these regulations, SA has traded a temporary pandemic for an eternal lockdown. We  will not allow it,” Hermann said. On Wednesday, the health department  extended the deadline for public comment  by three months. The regulations include: The Association of Southern African Travel Agents (Asata) was delighted that families with children between the ages of five and 12 years no longer need to provide a negative PCR test when returning to SA. “Family travel is a significant segment for SA’s travel industry and without the option to vaccinate under 12-year-olds, this has meant  families travelling overseas have been forced to bear additional expenses and inconvenience, deterring them from  travelling to destinations that do not  require a negative PCR test for under 12-year-olds for entry. “For travel to happen we need consistency and certainty. Consequently, we look forward to the finalisation of regulations in the next few months,” said Asata CEO Otto de Vries. MORE Family Collection founder and CEO Robert More echoed De Vries’ sentiments. “We have seen the pent-up demand from large family groups wanting to travel to SA grow recently, and it has been a  barrier to inbound travel for families, while competitors like East Africa have made it much easier and more accessible to travel to the destination. We are confident  with this change we will be in a position to inspire more families to visit our shores,” he said. Federated Hospitality Association of Southern Africa (Fedhasa) chairperson Rosemary Anderson said while the association was heartened that the health department heard the industry’s calls, it questioned the continuing requirement of reduced gathering sizes. She said the requirement was not based on science. “It would mean  many of the international events we would host in SA will  simply not be viable, which will result in further job losses. For any medium- to long-term planning to take place and events business to be secured, we need certainty. Waiting another three months  means  we will be losing many event opportunities. “Certainty is the one ingredient  essential for our industry to survive and thrive. We urge government to lift the restrictions on event gathering sizes sooner rather than later. “We could be positioning SA as a leading meetings, incentives, conferencing and events destination which would  contribute towards alleviating the massive unemployment rate, particularly the youth,” Anderson said. Southern Africa Tourism Services Association CEO David Frost agreed with Anderson. “While we are delighted  the negative PCR test requirement for families with children aged five to 12 years has been removed, we are disappointed  our department of health has continued with regulations that have no scientific base, such as the size of gatherings. “This is especially galling since that same department took umbrage with the unscientific approach of overseas governments which put in place restrictions against SA with the discovery of the Omicron variant. Why, when the shoe is on the same foot, do we do the same?” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.