SA Federation of Trade Unions secretary-general Zwelinzima Vavi says the disruption of President Cyril Ramaphosa’s  Workers’ Day speech was “a powerful unity between workers”. Ramaphosa was forced to abandon his address in Rustenburg, North West, after  mine workers booed him and stormed the stage. He was scheduled to give a keynote address at the Cosatu rally but had to be whisked away when angry workers staged a protest and demanded he leave. Among their chief concerns was the demand for a R1,000 monthly salary increase for Sibanye-Stillwater gold mine workers. “It was a powerful message of unity between workers of different unions who do not  belong to the same federations,” Vavi told Power 98.7. He said workers used Ramaphosa’s speech as an opportunity to rudely awaken him from his slumber. “They sent a powerful message to all of the elite that we are fighting our  battles in your absence and with you looking on the other side,” said Vavi. ActionSA leader Herman Mashaba said the disruption demonstrated  workers were tired of empty promises and Ramaphosa’s charm. “Chickens have come home to roost. Our workers  have been abused, lied to and betrayed by the ANC. You can lie to people for so long, but you can’t  lie to people with their lived experiences,” said Mashaba. He said Ramaphosa was under the impression that charm and smiling at workers would  see them  buy into his promises. “They demonstrated to him  they are gatvol. We are in a country where youth unemployment is  at 74%. This is unsustainable. We are a country with open borders where  home affairs  is failing to protect borders and the sovereignty of SA. This  is, unfortunately, affecting poor South Africans. With people who have not worked in the past 20 years, you can’t lie to them,” he said. Veteran media personality Redi Tlhabi also weighed in on the booing of ANC leaders, saying it was about time. “I am here for it. It’s about time. They think they can look the other way when comrades steal, protect the same thieves while vilifying dissent. When it suits them, they want to be seen as ‘different’. Cheers to ‘collective responsibility’. They didn’t stand up for citizens so booo,” said Tlhabi. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.