Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced new weapons and equipment for Ukraine after an unannounced visit to Ukraine’s capital Kyiv. While Russia is preparing a show of force to celebrate the anniversary of its World War II victory, the reality of its battle in Ukraine seems much bleaker. Ukraine’s military says more than 25,000 Russian soldiers have been killed since the invasion on February 24, while Moscow’s Defence Ministry says less than 1,300 soldiers have been killed. Al Jazeera was given rare access to the bodies left behind as Russia retreated from the Kyiv region. British Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said on Monday that Ukraine defeating the Russian army was very possible, while calling on Russian President Vladimir Putin to come to terms with the fact that Moscow has lost in the long run. "It is very possible that Ukraine will break the Russian army to the extent that they either have to go back to pre-February or they have to effectively fold in on itself," Wallace told an audience in the National Army Museum in London." He (Putin) must come to terms with how he's lost in the long run, and he's absolutely lost. Russia is not what it was." Reuters The European Union should consider seizing frozen Russian foreign exchange reserves to help pay for the cost of rebuilding Ukraine after the war, its foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell, said in an interview with the Financial Times. The EU and its western allies have put curbs on the Russian central bank's international reserves since the country began its invasion of Ukraine, actions Moscow describes as a “special military operation”. Borrell told the newspaper it would be logical for the EU to do what the US did with Afghan central bank assets after the Taliban took over the Asian nation. De Beers, the world's No. 2 diamond producer, is stepping up efforts to formally track its products from mine to retailer, the company's CEO said, as Western customers want assurance that their purchases do not come from Russia. De Beers, a unit of Anglo American, is also looking to adjust its supply chains, CEO Bruce Cleaver told Reuters in an interview, as it sees rising demand in the United States for its diamonds after US authorities banned the import of diamonds from Russia's Alrosa, the world's biggest producer. "Traceability and pipeline integrity are going to be the things that get accelerated out of the Russia-Ukraine war," Cleaver said. Russian President Vladimir Putin and his generals are mirroring the fascism and tyranny of 77 years ago and their invasion of Ukraine dishonours its military past, British Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said on Monday. In a speech to coincide with Russia's Victory Day parade commemorating the end of the World War Two, Wallace said the Russian generals were as complicit as their president, and should face court martial. "Through the invasion of Ukraine, Putin and his inner circle of generals are now mirroring fascism and tyranny of 77 years ago, repeating the errors of the last century's totalitarian regime," he said. Wallace was speaking as Putin addressed the massed ranks of service personnel on Red Square on the anniversary of victory over Nazi Germany, evoking the memory of Soviet heroism to urge his army towards victory in Ukraine. Britain has been one of the most vocal supporters of Ukraine's efforts to resist what Putin calls a "special operation" to disarm its smaller neighbour and protect it from fascists. Ukraine and the West say this a false pretext for an unprovoked war of aggression by Russia. Referring to Russian generals, Wallace said: "For them and for Putin there can be no victory day, only dishonour and surely defeat in Ukraine." Reuters A salvo of missiles brought the Kremlin’s war on Ukraine to Fastiv, a quiet town abounding with flowering cherry trees and set in sweeping farmland hundreds of kilometres from the front lines. The strike on April 28, which injured two people, hit an electrical substation that feeds power to a confluence of railway lines that forms a key hub of networks linking central Europe, Russia, and Asia. The damage quickly was repaired, said Ukrainian officials, and a Reuters visit last week revealed no lingering impact. Trains plied between Kyiv and the southern port of Odesa, disgorging passengers into the station at Fastiv, a town of 45,000 people 75km (45 miles) south of the capital. President Vladimir Putin presides over a parade in Moscow's Red Square as Russia marks the anniversary of the Soviet Union's victory over Nazi Germany in World War Two. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy, marking victory over Nazi Germany in World War Two, said on Monday his country was fighting for a new victory and would win its war with Russia."The road to it is difficult, but we have no doubt that we will win," he said in a statement. Reuters Russia has enough high-precision missiles and ammunition to fulfil all the tasks assigned to the country's armed forces, the Interfax news agency quoted Deputy Prime Minister Yuri Borisov as saying on Monday. A senior Pentagon official said in March that Russia, which sent thousands of troops into Ukraine on Feb. 24 in what it calls a special military operation, was running out of precision guided munitions. Reuters Russia is developing new-generation hypersonic missiles to carry out strikes from air, land and sea, the Interfax news agency quoted Deputy Prime Minister Yuri Borisov as saying on Monday. Reuters US first lady Jill Biden made an unannounced trip to Ukraine to show support for its people amid Russia's invasion.