Kaizer Chiefs’ rebuilding exercise will include two Stellenbosch FC stars, the Cape club confirmed on Monday morning. Stellies said they had agreed terms for the exciting pairing of centreback Zitha Kwinika, 26, and striker Ashley du Preez, 24, to move to Amakhosi. Both players have come closer to realising their potential at the Cape club where they were both influential in Stellenbosch’s fourth or fifth-placed finish under Steve Barker in 2021-2022. The signings follow Chiefs’ appointment of Arthur Zwane as head coach last week. “Stellenbosch FC and Kaizer Chiefs have agreed to terms over the transfer of  Zitha Kwinika and Ashley Du Preez.  Du Preez and Kwinika will join Chiefs at Naturena as of July 1,” Stellenbosch said on Monday morning. Former Bidvest Wits and Chippa United player Kwinika, formerly Macheke, said: “I’m grateful for Stellenbosch, especially coach Steve Barker and [CEO] Rob Benadie, but importantly, my teammates. “They helped me become a better player, so I am  grateful for the team and everyone involved in the backroom staff. “Though I am looking forward to the new challenge, I will always represent the Winelands wherever I go, because they helped me to grow and become a better player, a better individual and a better human being.” Barker said the club will battle to replace the quality of Kwinika. “I rate him  one of the best centrebacks in this league and I’m glad we could provide the opportunity for him to showcase his abilities and develop into the player  he is today. “Though it’s tough to see him go, we are incredibly happy for Zitha and wish him all the best in his next chapter.” Stellenbosch youth product Du Preez also said he had grown as a player at the club. “It’s never an easy decision leaving a club like Stellenbosch, a town that’s given me so much, a community that’s given me so much. I want to thank the management, the coaching staff, Garth Le Roux [Maties Sport football manager, Rob Benadie. “I want to thank them for supporting me. I want to thank the community for supporting me through thick and thin.” Benadie said Du Preez should excel at Chiefs. “Ashley is a top talent and while we would have loved to keep him at our club for his entire career, that is just not always possible or the right thing to do. “He has given us great service and we wish him  the  best with his move to  Amakhosi. We will continue on our path to build and strengthen on and off the field at SFC.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.