The business fraternity must admit  some of their colleagues were complicit in state capture,  President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday evening. “By far one of the greatest blows  state capture did was to  weaken our public institutions  and state-owned enterprises. These were also weakened through private company interests,” he said. The president was addressing the Black Business Council summit dinner at the Gallagher Convention Centre in Midrand, Gauteng. He said: “Billions were looted through state-owned entities and the capacity of the state was steadily eroded, and in some cases even destroyed. In a number of cases some companies and individuals in the private sector were complicit in acts of corruption, overcharging  and collusion. We must never lose sight of that. “The era of capture was also associated with illicit financial outflows,    tax evasion and other financial crimes. Some of our compatriots in business participated in all this as well.” Ramaphosa said he would like organisations such as the Black Business Council to be vocal about such matters so  “it should not be the Cyril Ramaphosas alone or people in government alone talking about this. If we are not vocal,  some companies may  want to do it over and over again.” Rebuilding SA, he said, was a collective effort and responsibility. “Over a decade our economy was bludgeoned, our state-owned entities were bludgeoned and state capacity, inside  government itself, was bludgeoned and weakened over this period. “It also hurt the course of black economic empowerment and the advancement of black professionals.” Some  black professionals saw short-term interests and went  with the flow. “Only much later did they realise they were being sucked into a process that was corrupt, that was weakening black economic empowerment and  the state, and in doing so there was further impoverishment of black economic empowerment.” Ramaphosa said the actions of those responsible must not further undermine black empowerment or hold back transformation. “We must not allow a climate where empowerment is viewed with suspicion. Where it is harder for  black businesses to raise finances or struggle to transact with  government. We must resist and refuse the calls to abandon the transformative policies and defer the task of broad-based economic empowerment.” More than ever “we need to  tackle empowerment with greater intensity and  in the face of those who use the new weapon”. Ramaphosa said the new weapon is the use of “lawfare"  or the courts of law. “They are waging war against transformation and progress for black people.” He said collectively,  black people should sit down “rather than throw stones  at one another”. Black economic empowerment needs an environment in which companies can grow and thrive and find new markets, he said. He called on business to work with  government to transform the country where there are shortfalls. LISTEN | Malema: Ramaphosa 'can go to hell' if he cannot be investigated TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.