President Cyril Ramaphosa has  lauded progress  by Operation Vulindlela in critical sectors of the economy, including electricity, water, transport and telecommunications, saying it will move SA’s battered economy from “stagnation to dynamism”. “Many of these reforms are complex, involving new ways of working and even the establishment of new institutions. In some cases, it will take time for us to see their full impact. Yet they are the only way to shift our economy from stagnation to dynamism,” Ramaphosa said in his weekly newsletter. The operation set up in October 2020 was aimed at addressing challenges in the electricity, water, transport and telecommunications sectors which he described as “the arteries through which the oxygen of the economy runs”. “Structural problems in these areas have long been cited as some of the main constraints on  SA’s economic growth. Inefficiency and the high cost of network services are an impediment to doing business. “A factory can only operate effectively with a reliable and affordable supply of electricity. A farm with irrigated farmlands can only produce food if its application for a water use licence is processed timeously. A mine can only transport its minerals for export if the railways are functioning properly. And a small business cannot thrive if it lacks access to the internet or if the cost of data is too expensive.” Releasing an update report on the work of Operation Vulindlela for the first quarter of 2022, Ramaphosa said  progress achieved should be seen as government's commitment to implement reforms that will  inject growth in  the economy and inspire confidence in the business and investor community. Among other achievements, Ramaphosa cited the following: “Changes to the regulations on new generation capacity have allowed municipalities to procure power independently for the first time. And legislative reforms will ultimately give birth to a new competitive electricity market, supported by the publication of the Electricity Regulation Amendment Bill and the work under way to amend the electricity pricing policy.” Ramaphosa  said  the  unbundling of Eskom’s generation and distribution divisions was on track and government hoped it would be completed by December. In the water sector,  work was under way to establish a national water resources infrastructure agency that  would ensure better management of  water resources. In the transport sector, where inefficiencies in ports and rail had severely affected the country’s ability to export goods,  partnerships with private sector operators who would  invest in port infrastructure were being established. “The white paper on national rail policy, which was approved by cabinet in March, outlines plans to revitalise rail infrastructure and enables third‐party access to the freight rail network. Transnet Freight Rail is already  making slots available for private rail operators on the network.” A fully operational e-visa system has been launched in 14 countries, including some of  SA's largest tourist markets. A comprehensive review of the work visa system is being done  to attract  skills  the economy needs. Ramaphosa  called on business and investors to take advantage of the changes in the pipeline  and turn their pledges and commitments into tangible, job-creating investments. “The reform agenda is moving and its momentum is unstoppable. Together, let us build on this progress and translate economic reform into growth, opportunity and employment.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.