Finding the time and budget to study is a challenge for many people, which often means reaching their full personal and business potential takes a back seat. Learning to manage your time effectively is an important life skill and is essential  when you’re taking up part-time studies. Everyone has various aspects of life to balance: work, family, personal life and studies. Ineffective time management means not only do you get less done but it can lead to stress and anxiety, which are common problems when trying to juggle the demands of a busy life. Improving your time management skills can alleviate stress triggers and help you achieve a healthier work-life balance. Effective time management will enable you to work your way systematically through your studies. Time management for studying is not just about managing the quantity of your study time, it is also being aware of your personal limitations - knowing when to work and when to stop. This can be very helpful to ensure that you stay motivated and committed to your studies. Studying does not take place in a vacuum but needs to be organised around your other fixed commitments. It may help to involve your colleagues, family and friends in the planning process to ensure their understanding, cooperation and support. For example, creating a study timetable that you can share with others will help them feel included and will also serve as a reminder to them that there will be times when you should not be disturbed. Setting goals is the key to successful time management and, when used in conjunction with your personal study timetable,  will guide you through your studies in a focused way. Goals will give direction to your personal learning and development and will also enable you to track your progress, while boosting your confidence and morale. Your goals should follow the SMART  principle: Students Julian Ing and Thabo Maketekete both completed part-time honours degrees in psychology through Wits Plus and achieved sought-after places in clinical psychology masters programmes. Listen to what they have to say about the importance of setting and achieving goals. Wits Plus offers selected Wits undergraduate and postgraduate degrees, as well as a range of short courses, on a flexible, part-time basis. This article was paid for by Wits Plus.