SA TV consumers are  spoilt for choice  after the launch of the streaming service, Disney+, on Wednesday. It is the dedicated streaming home for some of the world’s most loved stories alongside a growing collection of exclusive originals and general entertainment content. Senior vice-president and general manager of the Walt Disney company Africa Christine Service said the streaming service was  a  milestone in  their long-term relationship with MultiChoice Africa. “We are delighted to be collaborating to bring  SA DStv subscribers access to Disney+’s incredible catalogue of films, series and exclusive content. “In line with our business objective of leveraging scale and enhancing our ecosystem, we are focused on making sure that all our customers can enjoy their favourite shows and movies anywhere, any time, on our world-class platforms,” said Calvo Mawela, MultiChoice Group CEO. On the service consumers will access original Disney content  such as the Star Wars series and Encanto and features from the Marvel Cinematic Universe like Moon Knight. Consumer will access Disney+’s Star Hub, where they can view features from other platforms  including FX, Hulu, Freeform, and 20th Century Fox. Are you a fan of US reality stars the Kardashian-Jenners? You’re in for a treat because their new show, The Kardashians, is also available on Disney+. Disney+ offers users the Standard Plan at R119 a month or R1,190 ($74.64) a year. The plan, similar to Disney+ in the US, allows users to stream concurrently on four  devices and access unlimited downloads across 10 devices. Disney+ is the cheapest international streaming service available to South Africans compared to Amazon Prime Video, which cost R136 a month and Showmax, which costs R225 a month. While Netflix does have an affordable R49 a month mobile plan in SA, the plan only allows one user and one device. The only Netflix plan similar to Disney+’s standard R119 plan is Netflix’s premium plan, which costs R199  and allows Ultra HD streaming on up to four devices. Not necessarily, as the service is available to local DStv subscribers, including via the Explora Ultra decoder. Mawela says the ability to access content that otherwise would have been available for streaming will enable viewers to watch a variety of shows with ease and convenience. “The digital world brought with it fundamental shifts and our customers are looking for a portfolio of entertainment options. MultiChoice’s partnership with Disney+ leads with an expanded choice of content, ease and convenience of subscription and payment, with the DStv Explora Ultra as an enabler,” he said. Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.