The pulmonologist appointed by the state to assess former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi’s  health  started work on May 19 and the assessment will be presented on July 12 when Agrizzi’s corruption case  resumes in Johannesburg. So said the National Prosecuting Authority's  Investigating Directorate  on Monday  after the postponement of the R1.8bn tender fraud and corruption case involving former department of correctional services (DCS) and Bosasa officials — including  Agrizzi — in the Pretoria high court until July 22. Agrizzi was  again not in attendance because of ill health. ID spokesperson Sindisiwe Seboka said the outcome of the pulmonologist’s assessment  would be presented at the Johannesburg specialised commercial crimes court on July 12, where Agrizzi  faces a separate corruption case. “That determination will have an impact on this case,” Seboka said. Other accused in the Pretoria case are former correctional services commissioner Linda Mti, former DCS CFO Patrick Gillingham and former Bosasa CFO Andries van Tonder. On Monday, Mti and Gillingham requested a postponement  to provide financial instructions to their legal team. Seboka said Agrizzi  requested further particulars and the state  would comply. The Pretoria case relates to four tenders awarded to Bosasa and its subsidiaries between August 2004 and 2007. The tenders were  for  catering and training services,  installing CCTV cameras, installing  perimeter fencing and supplying a television system and monitoring equipment. In the Johannesburg case, Agrizzi’s trial was separated from that of his  co-accused, former  MP Vincent Smith, last year. The ID said the charges stemmed from Bosasa, through Agrizzi, offering Smith gratifications in the form of security upgrades to his Gauteng home and Smith’s acceptance of cash transferred into his personal bank account. The ID said there were also alleged payments in exchange for  his political influence as an ANC MP  to shield Bosasa from accountability for corrupting officials in the department  who awarded Bosasa contracts worth billions of rand. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.