Get ready for the most-anticipated beauty drop of the year: Rihanna's coveted brands Fenty Beauty and Fenty Skin are landing in Africa on May 27 — and Arc, SA's premier beauty-focused shopping destination, is giving you the chance to shop them first. “Every launch is exciting — we're all about being reachable to everyone, everywhere. But launching across Africa in eight countries not only feels really significant to me on a personal level, but is also a big step towards our goal of bringing Fenty Beauty and Fenty Skin to the whole world,” says Rihanna. Since the music and fashion icon first founded Fenty Beauty in 2017, it's become one of the globe's most-wanted beauty brands. It changed the game with its range of 50 inclusive shades for its Pro Filt’r Soft Matte Longwear Foundation, Hydrating Foundation and Powder Foundation. Fenty Skin has since made its mark with its range of clean, vegan and eco-friendly formulas that work for all skin types. Soon SA beauty lovers will be able to get their hands on some of these brands' most iconic products at Arc, which offers you the option to shop securely online, or at one of its chic boutiques in Joburg, Cape Town and Durban. This includes Fenty Beauty cult favourites such as the Pro Filt’r Soft Matte Longwear Foundation, Killawatt Freestyle Highlighter, Gloss Bomb Universal Lip Luminizer and Stunna Lip Paint Longwear Fluid Lip Color, as well as the new Fenty Icon Refillable Lipstick. “Arc is over the moon to bring these game-changing brands to SA,” says Kelly Fung, Arc's marketing executive. “Fenty Beauty and Fenty Skin have bought the concept of 'beauty for all' to the world, something that perfectly aligns to Arc's philosophy.” As a testament to Arc’s commitment to bringing the best in luxury beauty to SA, the brand is giving you the chance to get your hands on Fenty Beauty and Fenty Skin's hit products before anyone else, through pre-orders online and an unmissable midnight shopping event. Needless to say, Fenty Beauty and Fenty Skin products are sure to fly off the shelves. So, to ensure you get all the items you want before they sell out, you can pre-order them on Arcstore.co.za from May 24. Click here to register for this exclusive sale now. If you'd like your haul to arrive by May 27 — the date the brands officially launch in SA — you should place your order according to the regional timetable below. If you miss the cut-off time for your region, the Arc team will endeavour you get your order as close to May 27 as possible. If you truly want to be #BeTheFirst to shop Fenty Beauty and Fenty Skin, Arc is hosting a midnight shopping event on May 26 at its flagship stores in Sandton City in Joburg, the V&A Waterfront in Cape Town, and Gateway in Durban. You can expect a night full of shopping and fun with special treats in store. The midnight shopping queues will open at 11.30pm, so get there early. This article was paid for by Arc.